The Project Gutenberg eBook of War paint
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: War paint

Author: Robert Winchester

Illustrator: Ralph Frederick

Release date: October 21, 2025 [eBook #77102]

Language: English

Original publication: Chicago, IL: The McCall Company, 1929

Credits: Roger Frank and Sue Clark


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WAR PAINT ***


                            War Paint

                         By Robert Winchester
                    Illustrated by Ralph Frederick


        A right diverting tale of sudden love and battle
        down on the Texas border, by the competent writing-man
        who gave us “My Deputy” and “No Flyer Ever Lost.”


The two lean-bodied Texas rangers stood on the sidewalk of Wirton’s
main street, their thin, bronzed, grave young faces immobile, watching
the girl who had pulled up to the curb in a long high-powered roadster
that carried a New York license.

“Doggone,” said Sam Earp, plaintively, “I sure wish Ma was along so’s
she could see it. Ma’s been reading herself a lot about these new kind
of girls, and she don’t believe it a-tall. Hot damn, boy! Look at her
puttin’ her war paint on. Reckon she’s goin’ to hold up the bank, Bud?”

Bud Yancey grinned. “She’s a right pretty girl even if she does--my
gosh, Sam, maybe-so she heard us?”

The girl calmly powdered a very pretty straight little nose, touched her
red hair with a dainty hand in one or two places, looked at the general
result in a little mirror, took out a lipstick, worked on her lips for a
moment, looked again in the mirror--then snapped her compact shut, got
out of the car and walked directly up to the two young rangers.

She wasn’t more than nineteen, and her graceful, exquisitely
proportioned slim body, in its silken sheath, was the very heart of
youth. Her eyes, dark gray-blue, surveyed the luckless pair, starting
at their feet and slowly rising until they reached the eyes of the now
much embarrassed Messieurs Yancey and Earp.

They lingered on the heavy cartridge-belts, from which hung the
holstered revolvers, then once more came level with theirs, and she
asked, sweetly: “When does the rest of the circus come to town?”

They both knew then that there could be no further doubt as to whether
she had heard them or not. She had--and was going to give battle.

“Well suh,” grinned Sam Earp, “it aint plumb certain just what time the
rest of the outfit does get in, is it, Bud?” Now that active hostilities
had started, they both felt better.

“That’s right, it isn’t,” agreed Bud. “You see,” he went on gravely,
his keen young black eyes, with the tiny wrinkles at the corners
already forming from gazing over the hot shimmering desert, intent
on hers, “there was a right bad accident happened to the lion over
yonder in Laredo, and it might delay them. Were you waitin’ to see
the show?”

“Yes suh,” said Sam Earp, “I don’t figure that lion will ever be the
same again, will he, Bud?”

The girl’s beautiful eyes had widened quite a little when they so
readily took up the circus gibe, which she had meant as a
double-barreled insult, in payment for the words: “I wish Ma was along
to see it.”

“Why--I don’t believe there is a circus at all,” she said, “and--”

“What?” interrupted Bud sorrowfully. “Doggone, Sam, this here girl
doesn’t believe there is a circus! Don’t you believe in Santa Claus,
either?” he asked anxiously.

Miss Elaine Norcross Webb, only daughter of Charles P. Webb, New York
and Newport multi-millionaire, with yachts, country-houses and all that
goes with them at her disposal, had never been referred to before, at
least within hearing, as “this here girl.” But having fighting blood
herself, she rallied quickly.

“What happened to the lion?” she asked, just as gravely as Bud.

“It’s a right sad thing,” answered Sam Earp slowly. “He was--what was he
doing, Bud? You were around when it happened.”

“It was this-a-way,” said Bud, a look of scorn in his eyes as they dwelt
a moment on the uninventive Mr. Earp. “That lion had a right bad habit
of trying to climb the tent-pole backwards, and every time he got out,
he’d--”

                   *       *       *       *       *

The muffled sound of two shots came from the adobe house next to the
bank; the door crashed open, and five Mexicans ran out. They turned
at the edge of the sidewalk, and as a white man staggered from the
doorway, an old single-action .41 in his hand, they raked the doorway
and the windows of the house with a stream of lead. The white man
pitched forward on his face, and the Mexicans started to run up the
street directly toward Elaine and the two rangers.

She had just time to see the faces of Bud Yancey and Sam Earp suddenly
become grim and cold before she felt Bud’s arm close around her waist,
forcing her to her knees behind him.

“Lie down,” he commanded, no trace of a drawl now in his voice. Then
she saw them run to the middle of the street, guns materializing in
their hands as if by magic. There was a quick flurry of shots that
came before she could get on her feet, which she promptly did, in
spite of the command to get down.

Two of the Mexicans lay in the street; one was retreating toward the
corner, firing as he went; one did not attempt to do any fighting but
ran swiftly to the corner and disappeared; the other stood still, his
hands above his head. Sam Earp was sitting in the dusty street, the
right side of his face a blur of blood, his right arm hanging limp,
and his left hand reaching for his gun, which had dropped from his
hand as a bullet had torn through his wrist.

[Illustration: Bud’s weapon rose and fell; the Mexican whirled as if
hit by a giant fist, then sank to the ground.]

Bud Yancey stood erect, his heels together, swaying a little as the red
splotch on his soft white shirt up near his shoulder widened. Elaine
could see the frozen-looking little smile on his lips, and his eyes,
now as cold and wintry as northern ice in the gray of dawn. The Mexican
fired twice, then as Bud’s weapon rose and fell, whirled around as if
hit by a giant fist, his knees gave way and he sank slowly to the
ground.

A mild-looking old man had stepped out of the bank next door at the
first shot, a revolver in his hand, the butt of which was notched in
several places. He watched the fight, making no attempt to get in
it. When it was over, he sheathed his gun in a holster under his
left armpit and walked over to where already men were bending over
Sam Earp and Bud Yancey, now lying across Sam.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The old man talked a moment with the men who were lifting Sam and Bud
in their arms, felt gently Sam’s wrist and head, opened Bud’s shirt a
little, gave a curt order and started back toward the bank. He saw
Elaine standing there, one lovely hand over her heart, and came up to
her. “Honey,” he said in a soft disapproving drawl, “you-all mustn’t
get up when men-folks are gunfightin’. Next time you-all keep
down--like a right good girl should.”

“Next time!” gasped Elaine. “I--it happened so quickly, and--”

“It does that-a-way down here,” the old man said, a twinkle coming in
his calm blue eyes, “every once in a while.”

“Are they--is he--oh, he stood there with a smile and--is he badly
hurt?”

“If you-all mean that wuthless young Bud Yancey,” answered Ranger
Captain Coudray, “no, ma’am, he isn’t. Neither is that scoundrel of a
Sam Earp.”

She had been referred to as “this here girl” and had been told to act as
“a right good girl” in the course of five minutes, but she decided right
then that she would defer for a day or so arriving at the army post
where her brother was stationed--at least until she had heard more about
the accident to the lion, and--found out that Bud Yancey was not really
badly hurt.

“I was going into the bank to get a traveler’s check cashed,” she
explained, “and they were talking to me when it happened. I’m Elaine
Webb, and my brother is Lieutenant Webb, stationed at Fort Combes.”

“Well suh, I know him right well--and I knew your daddy’s brother when
he was soldierin’ down here a long time ago. My name is Coudray, honey.
I’m kinda the boss of them two jaspers I caught gun-frolickin’.”

Elaine looked at the famous old ranger captain that her brother had
written about when telling of men and ways in Texas.

“Honey, after you-all get through at the bank, I sure would admire
if you’d come home with me and meet up with the best lookin’ girl in
Texas. Mrs. Coudray don’t get out much nowadays, and she loves young
people, specially right pretty ones.”

Elaine smiled. “I’d love to. I didn’t want to go until--are you sure he
isn’t hurt very much, Captain?”

“That Bud Yancey isn’t hurt hardly a-tall,” answered the old Ranger.
“Honest Injun. You go and ’tend to your bankin’, and then come home
with me. Ma’ll take you over to the hospital this evenin’, I reckon.”

“Why, I don’t want to see him,” Elaine hastily declared. “I--just wanted
to know that--”

“I know you don’t, honey,” drawled Captain Coudray, a twinkle in his
eyes. “There aint a nicer boy in the State. He’s got him a mighty good
range, too. Some day he’ll have his company, I bet you.”

“I don’t see why you are telling me,” Elaine said haughtily. “I haven’t
the slightest interest in--either what he is or what he has!”

“Yessum,” said Ranger Captain Coudray, stepping aside so that Elaine
could precede him in the bank, “I’d bet me a lot of money that you--”

Elaine hadn’t waited to hear the rest of it, but with her patrician
little nose well in the air was halfway to the banking counter.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Lieutenant John Webb was standing in front of a long glass frankly
admiring the fit of a tunic on which was spread the silver wings of
a flyer. “Hey, Lainy,” he said, without turning around, “is that a
wrinkle up there by the collar? Come on over and take a look.”

“It isn’t,” answered Elaine lazily from the couch. “I can see from here.
Boy, it fits you like the paper on the wall. I can--”

“You can like fun. Get off’n that couch before I come over and trun yez
off. This is an important matter.”

“Oh, for Pete’s sake,” said Miss Webb inelegantly. “I’m halfway through
this story, and what between you and the rest of the infants around here
asking me how their uniforms fit, I’ll never finish it. It isn’t a
wrinkle, I tell you.” But she rose just the same and came to the mirror.
“See,” she went on, “it fits smooth--except right here.”

“Ouch! Quit it, you darn’ monkey! Gee, you shouldn’t tickle anyone like
that without warning. I’ll--”

“Take that in payment for making me get up,” answered Elaine. “Jack, did
you ever meet this Bud Yancey I told you about?”

“No, not Bud. I’ve met Jimmy and Wes--they’re his cousins, I guess. All
the Yanceys down here are related. Man, you ought to see Jimmy’s sister
Betty. She’s one lovely piece of work. I’ve seen ’em under every flag
that flies, and she’s the starweno.”

“Yes?” scoffed Elaine. “So you have fallen for a Texas beauty after all
your fussiness? Remember who you are, young feller.”

“That’s just it,” answered her brother. “I got as much chance as a
jackrabbit, ding it.”

“What! You--a Webb--and you haven’t any chance? Does she know who you
are, darling?”

Her brother eyed her suspiciously. “What are you trying to do--kid me?”
he demanded. “The Yanceys were cattle barons and governors of Texas back
in the days when the Webbs were running around barefooted peddling fish,
you poor prune! Money doesn’t count for anything down here. It’s what
you weigh and how you can stand up to it in Texas--”

“Down by the Rio Grande,” sang Elaine gayly. “So the proud and haughty
Yanceys scorn the poor Webbs, do they? Never mind, Johnny; we’ll make
them--”

“I’ve told you nine million times not to call me that,” said her brother
hotly. “I’m going to try out that new 5N bus that came in this morning.
Want to go along?”

“Not I, my darling,” answered Elaine, stretching luxuriously. “It’s too
hot, for one thing; and--”

“I dassen’t, for another,” jeered her brother from the door. “Stay there
and get fat, then.”

“Stay here and keep all in one piece, you mean,” called Elaine to the
retreating back.

But about an hour later she decided to go down to the flying-field after
all and at least watch her brother try out the new 5N. He was in the air
when she arrived, watched by quite a group of officers and “kiwi.”

“Hullo,” she was greeted by a young captain. “Come on over here and sit
down. That brother of yours is trying to break his fool neck. He’s been
doing barrel-rolls and flying on his back while he’s resting. I’ll bet
that bird he’s got up with him wishes he’d stayed on the ground. Anyone
that would go up with Jack Webb when he’s testing out a crate is as
crazy as he is.”

“He asked me to,” said Elaine, sitting down. “Who is it he has up with
him? Must be someone that doesn’t know him very well.”

“I dunno,” answered the captain. “I wasn’t here when they started. Some
lad said it was a ranger named Yancey.”

“What?” said Elaine, sitting up straight. “What Yancey? Was his--I mean
is his name--Bud Yancey, Billy?”

“Whadda you care?” asked Captain William Carter with a grin. “His name
will be mud if he monkeys around flyin’ with Jack, very much. Oh, ho!
You’re the reason we are honored with the presence of a ranger, are
you? How-come Jack wants to kill him? Doesn’t he approve, Lainy?”

“Don’t be any more of a fool than you can help,” answered Elaine
crossly. “I just--my goodness, look at him!”

[Illustration: However reckless her brother acted in the air, he was
cool enough to make a perfect landing.]

The great plane came roaring down in a tight spiral, to straighten out,
skid, then side-slip to reduce the excess speed, the field being a
small one. However reckless her brother acted in the air, he was cool
enough to make a perfect landing and bring the plane to a stop within
ten feet of where Elaine was sitting. As he crawled out of the cockpit,
he was followed by Texas Ranger Bud Yancey, whose tanned young face
seemed a little paler than usual, although as immobile and grave as
ever. “I’m right much obliged to you,” Bud said, holding out his hand
to Webb. “That was sure a ride. I reckon from now on, though, I’ll take
mine forkin’ a bronc’.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Elaine arrived, with battle showing clearly in her eyes. “John Webb,”
she began, “what do you mean by taking anyone up with you when you’re
trying out--”

“Aw, go on,” her brother grinned. “He wanted to go. --Didn’t you, Bud?
Tell sis about it.” And he beat a hasty retreat.

“Bud Yancey, you come over here and sit down this minute. The very
idea--and you not out of the hospital a week. You should have better
sense,” Elaine scolded, leading the grinning Mr. Yancey firmly away
to a quiet corner near one of the hangars.

“I always wanted to go up in one of those things,” he protested, as
they sat down, “and I’m all right. Last time you-all came to see us,
the doctor said that--”

“I don’t care what the doctor said. You shouldn’t--”

“Honey, don’t jump on the old man that-a-way while he’s plumb dizzy.
You-all be a good--”

“What did you call me?” demanded Elaine, her lips tightening.

“Darlin’, how can I tell what I’m callin’ anyone, after gettin’ rolled
around and around way up yonder?” asked Bud sorrowfully. “Ask me
sometime when I’ve right good sense. All I know is that I’m sittin’
here with you. A jasper told me one time that when a man gets as dizzy
as the dickens, he always says what he thinks.”

Elaine eyed him with a good deal of hostile suspicion. “You’re a fraud,”
she declared, “and--”

“No, I am not,” interrupted Bud. “My head is clearing right fast now,
and I remember. I came all the way over to tell you that after you’d
been to the hospital the second time, I decided that you were.”

“I was what?” asked Elaine.

“What I called you when I was dizzy,” explained Bud with a grin.

“Well,” said Elaine grimly. “I can still see that you are as dizzy as
the dickens, like you say. You better come right up to John’s with
me, and let Chi-sui make you something cool to drink. You are still
awfully dizzy, Mr. Bud Yancey. Come on.” And she slipped her slender
little hand in his, much to the disgust of several young officers
hovering around in the background. On the way she asked: “That day in
Wirton--what did those men do, that you--were they trying to rob the
bank?”

“No, they were some of Garcia’s men from across the line. Reckon they
had a deal on with old ’Pache Brown. He’s more or less tied in with
those jaspers. I mean he was,” amended Bud, with a grin.

“Then why did they try to kill him?”

“Well suh, I don’t figure they did aim to do that. Maybe-so it was the
other way around. Old ’Pache was right apt to reach for a gun if he got
fussed up, and it never took much to start him that-a-way. He may have
thought they was holding out on him.”

“Well, wont this Garcia try and--and do something to you and Sam Earp,
Bud?”

“Yessum,” answered Bud cheerfully, “I reckon he will. He’s been trying
to do something to us for a long time. Not only us, but the Border
Patrol gents also.”

“You seem to think it’s funny,” said Elaine hotly. “My goodness, don’t
you care at all whether you get killed or not?”

“Darn’ right I do,” said Bud promptly. “I don’t want to get killed
a-tall. Especially now.”

“Why especially now?” asked Elaine, as they started up the veranda
steps. If she had thought to embarrass Mr. Buford Yancey with that
question, she woefully failed. Mr. Yancey was always ready to give a
direct truthful answer to an equally direct question.

“Because,” he said, halting on the top step and turning so as to face
the very pretty little Miss Webb, “I’ve fallen in love with you, and
want to live a long time after we are married.”

“What!” gasped Elaine. “You’ve--after we are married! Well, Mr. Bud
Yancey, you’ve got a long, long time to live before that ever happens.
Why, you’ve only known me about three weeks! How do you know that I--”

“I don’t,” interrupted Bud sorrowfully. “That’s just what is keeping me
dizzy. Do you reckon that you--”

“No, I don’t,” said Elaine, interrupting in her turn, “and furthermore,
I think you better sit right down here on this step until you get less
dizzy, Mr. Yancey.”

“I’ll have to,” said Bud, as faintly as possible. “Better have that
Chink hurry with the drink; I’m getting worse.”

“Here he comes now to see if we want anything. I think you are much
too dizzy to have anything put in yours, either. You’ll get lemonade,
plain.”

“My gosh!” said Bud, sitting down. “I sure wish you hadn’t asked me that
question.” Then, being young and gay and happy, they both laughed and
Elaine sat down beside him.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Two weeks later Lieutenant Webb, his right arm in a sling, a bandage
around his head, looked up from where he was lying on the living-room
couch. “Where the dickens have you been?” he demanded as Elaine came
in.

“I got here as soon as I could after I heard about it,” she answered,
coming over and kneeling by the couch, kissing him. “What happened,
Johnny? Are you badly hurt, tell me! Darling, you should be more
careful. Did you break your arm?”

“Who, me? I should say not. I keep it this way because it’s cooler
and--”

“John Norton Webb, you answer me! What happened, and how badly are you
hurt?”

“Aw, I’m not hurt at all. Quit fussin’ at me. I tried out a bus this
morning, and when I landed her, the undercarriage came away, and I
washed out, that’s all.”

“And got a broken arm and a--is your head bad, Johnny?”

“No, only a scratch, honest and truly, no foolin’. Where you been?”

“Up on the Lazy W Ranch to see Ma Earp. Bud took me up there. I met
Betty Yancey, Jack.”

“You did! Isn’t she a bearcat? Listen, Lainy--put in a good word for
me, will you? You know, tell her what a noble guy I am, and what a
swell husband I’d make, and--”

“I wont--do your own horn-tooting, young feller. Oh, Jack, you’d love Ma
Earp. She’s--”

“Where do you get that ‘Ma’ stuff?” demanded her brother.

“Everyone calls her Ma,” defended Elaine. “Bud asked me to.”

“And that reminds me,” said John sternly, “how-come you running around
all over the lot with that darn ranger? Hasn’t he got any rangering to
do at all? Whenever I asked where in the dickens you were, someone says,
‘Why, she just started with Bud Yancey for Gafoozalum or Doflicker, or
some place.’”

“Why, darling,” answered Elaine, trying to look surprised, “I just
wanted to see if a Webb could make a Yancey--like them. It was on your
account I have been doing it, Jonathan.”

“Yeah? You fool around with these birds down here, and you’ll wake up
married.”

Elaine laughed. “Don’t worry, Jonathan; I can take care of myself.”

“That’s what all you darn’ flappers think,” said John, whom enforced
idleness had made rather fussy. “But how’d you like Ma Earp?”

“Oh, she’s a duck. She’s about eighty, and she was here when there were
Indians and outlaws and everything. She sits up there on the big ranch,
Jacky, and bosses them all--all the Earps and the Yanceys and everybody.
She’s the prettiest old thing with silver hair, and her eyes are just as
black and snappy. You should have seen her look me over when that darn’
fool of a Sam Earp and Bud took me in to her.”

“Why darn’ fool?” lazily questioned her brother. “Go and chase up
Chi-sui, will you, Lainy? I want him to find my pipe.”

“It’s right on the couch beside you, dumbbell,” answered Elaine with
sisterly candor. “Why, he said, ‘Ma, you-all claimed there wasn’t no
such animal like you-all been readin’ about. Me and Bud, here, caught
us one down in Wirton and tamed it a lot so we could bring it up here
for you-all to look at.’”

“Yeah? What did she say?”

“Well, first she said to them: ‘You young scoundrels, go on away from
here right now, you hear me?’ And honest and truly, they both did.”

John laughed. “Then what, Lainy?”

“Why,” Elaine admitted, “she told me to sit down, and she asked me a lot
of questions, and--”

“Hard ones?” grinned her brother.

“Some of them,” Elaine confessed. “And then she told me to open my
compact and show her how I used the rouge and the powder, and she
asked me what I did it for--being a right pretty girl. And when I
told her all girls did, she--she just snorted; that’s the best way I
can describe it.”

“I’ll bet she did,” said John, delighted.

“Well, anyway, she did--and then we talked some more, and when I was
going she called me over and kissed me, and said: ‘Sugar, you’re a
right good girl and a smart one; you can’t fool me a-tall.’ And she
went on to say,” continued Elaine, with a boyish grin, “that she’d
heard a lot about that poor fish of a brother of mine that was
shining up to Betty Yancey, and from all she had heard he was--what
was it she said? Oh, yes, that you were a no-’count scoundrel of a
flyer, and--”

“Go on, now you’re romancing. Go and make me a glass of iced tea, will
you, Lainy? Spike it heavy with corn licker.”

“I’ll make the tea and spike it light, if at all. Corn licker and flying
don’t go together, me lad.”

“Aw, have a heart,” complained John to a very pretty back disappearing
in the direction of the kitchen.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Elaine stopped her car on the comb of a hill and stood up.

“Bud,” she said solemnly, “I think that’s the most beautiful view
I’ve ever seen, and I’ve been in Switzerland and--Bud Yancey, are you
listening to me?”

“No,” answered Bud, from his seat beside her in the roadster, “I’m
watchin’ something.”

“What?” demanded Elaine, sitting down again and turning so that she
could see in the direction Bud was looking. “Where? Show me, Bud.”

“Over there on the left. . . . No, follow my finger. See, way over there
just the other side of that bunch of chaparral--”

“What, Bud? What is chaparral?”

“Oh, my gosh! That bunch of--see, that thicket over there. That’s the
line and--hot damn!”

Elaine saw what he was looking at, just as little white puffs of smoke
went floating up from the chaparral.

She saw what looked to be several men on horseback burst out of it,
heading south. A moment afterward she could just barely see two men
come out on foot, go to where there were two horses, get on them and
ride along the west border of the clump.

“That’s Sam and Bill Earp, darn their onery hides!” announced Bud.
“Sneakin’ off on me this-a-way!”

“What? How can you tell from here who they are? I can hardly see them.
What were they doing? Bud Yancey, you better come out of it and tell
me.”

“Shucks,” said Bud, his eyes still on the two men, “I can see them
plain enough. Those darn’ jaspers must have got a tip that something
was coming across. Wait till I meet up with those polecats, goin’ off
like that without me.”

“Did you hear what I said?” demanded Elaine. “I am not accustomed to
having my questions totally ignored, Mr. Yancey. What were they doing
down there?”

“I just told you,” answered Bud. “Some gents were trying to get across
the line, and Sam and Bill Earp stopped them--that’s all.”

“How lucid!” said Elaine hotly. “What a word-painter you are! Some gents
were trying to get across the line, and Sam and Bill Earp stopped them,
that’s all,” she mimicked. “That tells a lot, doesn’t it?”

“Doggone it,” answered the surprised Bud, “how else can I tell you?”

“It isn’t what you tell; it’s the way you told it. You tossed it out at
me like a--like a--the way you would a bone to a dog. Who do you think
you are, to talk that way to me? I’m not--”

“For Pete’s sake,” interrupted the still surprised Bud. “I don’t know a
thing about it, honest Injun. You asked--”

“Yes, I did,” said Elaine angrily. Her hand went to the gear-shift, and
her little arched foot to the starter. “Well, I’m going down there and
see just--”

“Hold ’er,” said Bud, sitting up straight. “You can’t go down there.
There may be some more that have sneaked over before Sam and Bill got
there.”

“What? I _can’t_! Who are you to tell me what I can do? Are you afraid,
Mr. Yancey, and you a ranger?”

“I told you not to,” said Bud. As he spoke, his left foot came against
the gear-shift, and he reached over and shut off the ignition.

“You dare!” flared Elaine, who had the full complement of temper that
is supposed to go with red hair, and hers was brick red, not bronze nor
auburn. “Take your foot away--get out of this car!”

“I wont,” returned Bud, “not any. That’s darn’ dangerous ground down
there at the minute, and you’re not going down there, a-tall.”

“I’m not--a-tall,” mocked Elaine, her lips tight. “Well, I am--just as
far as I want to go, Mr. Texas Ranger Yancey. Why, you’re afraid to go!
You are just as white as--as anything.”

“That’s right,” drawled Bud silkily. “I’m afraid.”

“Get out, then, and wait until I come back,” said Elaine.

“I don’t reckon I can do that,” answered Bud, “because you’re not going
in the first place.”

“Well, I am,” asserted Elaine. “Take your foot away, please.”

“Wait a minute,” said Bud. “You don’t _sabe_, I reckon. If any of those
raiders got across before, they’re holed up somewhere. If we ran on to
them, I might not be able to stand them off. Then you’d--”

“If we do,” Elaine interrupted, “you can get out and run as soon as you
see them--you can see so far.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Bud Yancey’s face really did go white at this taunt. None of the Yanceys
were noted for much of an even temper, and Bud ran very true to type.
But his voice never raised above the slow, soft drawl.

“Yes’sum, I could do that--if we got down there. But we aren’t going.
You better start back to the Fort, I reckon.”

“Well,” said Elaine bitterly, after one good look at the frosty black
eyes of Mr. Yancey, “I’m not big enough to lick you, much as I’d like
to; so you can take your foot away. I’ll take you back to the Fort
where you’ll be safe, Mr. Yancey; and before I start, I’ll tell you
one thing--that is I think you are nothing but a scared cat, and I
don’t ever want to see you again.”

“I’m right sorry you feel that-a-way,” courteously answered Bud as he
took his foot from the gear-shift. There wasn’t another word said by
either of them on the drive to the Fort. When they arrived, and Elaine
had stopped in front of her brother’s, Bud got out of the car, took off
his wide soft hat, bowed and said, “Thank you very much for a right
pleasant ride,” and walked over towards Captain Carter’s quarters.

Elaine sat there at the wheel for a moment with a look on her face
that plainly showed she was still angry but not quite as happy as a
young lady should have been who had told a young man she hated just
what he was.

                   *       *       *       *       *

“Where’s the gent that’s been hanging on to your apron-strings, Lainy?”
asked Webb at the breakfast-table sometime later. “He hasn’t hove in
sight for a week or more.”

“I don’t know--and I don’t care,” answered Miss Webb shortly.

“What!” he shouted. “Don’t tell me he’s done quit you!”

Elaine looked at her only brother dispassionately. “Do you know,” she
stated in a conversational tone, “I always wondered how you managed to
slip through at the Point. And now, as I see what you look like when
you laugh that way, I wonder more.”

“What do I look like, Lainy?” grinned Webb. “I thought sure as shootin’
that you and Bud--”

“You look like an absolute idiot; and you are not far from being one, at
any time.”

“My heavens,” teased Webb, “it must have been a fierce battle! Do you
mean to tell me you allowed a Yancey to ruffle the feathers of a Webb
this way? Make up, old kid, and do it darn’ quick. I need your help
with Betty.”

“Well, you wont get it,” declared Elaine firmly, “and I wont make up
with him.”

“Even if you do get a chance,” jeered her brother. “He hasn’t come
around lately, has he? Couldn’t you hold--” Webb stopped and looked
keenly at her. “What’s the matter, sis?” he asked in an entirely
different tone of voice. “Tell old John about--if you can.”

“Certainly I can. It--that day we drove over to see a man Bud wanted
to ask something. When we were coming back, I stopped to look at the
view, and there was a fight down in the--chaparral, and after it was
over I wanted to go down and see it, and he wouldn’t. He put his foot
over against the gear-shift, and--”

“Wait a minute,” interrupted Webb. “What went before this foot-putting
stuff? You say there was a fight down in the chaparral? You mean a fight
in the car, don’t you?”

“No, I don’t--not that kind of a fight, anyway, though there would have
been if I’d been big enough. He held it with his foot, and I couldn’t
move it.”

“That’s what I am trying to get at. Why did he?”

“Why, he said it was dangerous to go down there, because there might be
some more of the raiders, he called them.”

“And you were going, anyway?”

“Yes, I was--or no, I wasn’t really; but after he said I couldn’t, then
I--”

“Oh, I see. He said you couldn’t, so you were going anyway. Then he put
his foot against the gear-shift and stopped you. Did it ever occur to
you that a Texas ranger, in his own country, might know whether a thing
was dangerous or not?”

“No, it didn’t; and even if it did, he had no right to stop me.”

“Well, my persecuted race!” said John Webb, in honest amazement. “And
you sit there looking at least half-witted. Why, you darn’ little
fool, it was his business to stop you! Do you think he would let you
go, knowing you’d go into danger?”

“I wasn’t going into danger,” said Elaine furiously, “and if I were, he
ought to protect me. He was afraid, and--”

“What? Afraid? Bud Yancey? Now I know you’re goofy. What the heck and
high water is the matter with you, Lainy? My gosh, if being in love
makes people act that way, I’m darn’ glad I’m--”

“Oh,” said Elaine, getting up from the table, “you make me so--so damn’
mad!”

“Well,” grinned Webb, rising also, “so does Mr. Yancey. . . . H’m--I
wonder who the heck that is? Boy, howdy, see him make that turn? Take
it easy, boy; Liz wont stand much of that. Holy cats! He’s coming
over here!” And Webb ran down the steps to meet the flivver that was
charging up to the steps.

                   *       *       *       *       *

A young Mexican jumped out almost before it stopped, and began talking
to Webb. Elaine promptly ran down the steps and tried to get what he
was talking about. Her Spanish ran about twenty or thirty words, and
the very much excited young Mexican was going up around three hundred a
minute. Elaine got: “_Los Rangeros--mucho malo batalla--_” and then was
entirely lost trying to follow. Finally, she got: “_El Rangero Earp y
el Rangero Yancey, muy malos hombres--_”

“Jack,” she said, seizing Webb’s arm, “what is it? Tell me!”

“What? Where the--go away, woman.”

“I wont. You tell me.”

“All right, if you want to know, I’ll tell you. Garcia’s gang came
across the line to get some rangers that mopped up on some of them a
little while ago. This bird says they found the rangers, and there
is one bearcat fight going on down near the old Three C ranch. He’s
a friendly Mex and has come in to get help. He says that some Earp
and Yancey are holding the fort, but they wont last long. He also
says that they are very bad men in a battle. Now, you know, go on
away. I’m going to phone to Bill Carter to get his doughboys over
there _pronto_.”

“What Yancey?” asked Elaine directly of the Mexican.

“_El Senor Budero Yancey y--_” He stopped as Elaine whirled around and
ran to the house.

“Can cars make it up to this Three C ranch?” Webb asked.

“But no, senor,” answered the Mexican, getting a strangle-hold on what
English he had. “These bridge at the _valle es debajo del agua--mucho
agua_.”

“Holy cats--under water! How close can they get?”

“_Dos milas._ These Garcia--he ’ave _muchisimo hombres_ weeth--”

“Yeah? I’ll get very much men on his tail too, darn’ quick.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Webb put down the telephone receiver after having been profanely ordered
away from it by Captain William Carter, commanding fifty-odd hardboiled
infantrymen who were literally spoiling for want of a fight--Carter’s
last words being: “Get away from that phone and give me a chance. Don’t
you call up anyone else, either, or I’ll bust you wide open.”

“Oh, my sainted aunt!” Webb said as he started away from the telephone.
“Every darn’ bus out jazzing around, and me with a busted arm! By gosh,
I’ll go with those-- Where do you think you’re going?”--to Elaine, who
had returned, dressed in flying overalls.

“That Martin bomber is on the line, and I’m--”

“What? That old crate? She’s out of commission--and even if she weren’t,
you couldn’t fly her.”

“Major Carnduff said I could fly any bus on this station,” protested
Elaine, “and I’m going to. I can fly as well as you can, and--”

“Better,” agreed Webb, “much better. Only you’re not going to, because
there is no bus to fly, ding it all. If there were, I’d fly it myself.
The oil-line is out of that baby, and--There goes Bill Carter and his
gang! Holy smackers, Bill’s copped the old man’s pet car and loaded it
to the guard-rails. I’m going with the next load, no foolin’. You stay
here, Lainy.”

“My car is much faster than any of theirs,” insinuated that young lady.

“Yeah? That’s right. I’ll take it. Go get it for me, Lainy, like a nice
girl. Manuel, you wait here. Go and get something to eat. _Mucho dinero_
coming to you, old kid.”

Elaine brought her car around in front. “You can’t drive and shift gears
with one hand,” she pointed out, making no effort to get away from the
driver’s seat. “I’ll drive you as far as the bridge.”

Her brother, knowing her full well, looked at her with deep suspicion.
“You will? And then what will you do? Holy cats! There go two more
cars! I’ve missed the first bunch-- All right, you drive me to the
bridge. Catch up with Bill Carter if you can. Then you turn around and
come back, you hear me?”

“Yes, dear,” Elaine answered meekly, so meekly that Webb looked at her
grimly and said: “I mean it, sis.”

Without any further discussion Elaine devoted her attention to the
wheel; the roadster not only caught up to Captain Carter’s load of
doughboys but passed them, long before the bridge was in sight, and
raced on ahead.

The bridge was three or four feet under water. Generally the little
stream that came slipping down from the hills was quiet and peaceful,
but a cloudburst had made it a roaring torrent. There was a foot-bridge
about a mile up, connecting the walls of a narrow deep canon from which
the stream issued to the valley below. It wasn’t much of a bridge, being
used by men going up in the hills who did not want to circle the valley.
The water had not nearly reached it, and as Elaine stopped at the edge
of the flood-water, she pointed it out.

“Go right ahead, Mr. Webb. There’s your bridge up there on the right.”

“Fools rush in where angels fear to tread,” chuckled Webb. “I’ll wait
for Bill and his cohorts.”

He didn’t have long to wait, for they arrived about two minutes later.
Carter smiled cheerfully at Elaine.

“Hullo, Lainy! Going in as Red Cross?”

“No, I am not,” answered Elaine hotly. “I’m going home. This darn’ old
brother of mine wont let me.”

“That’s where he shows sense for once. Come on, you terries--show me
something! Sergeant Bate, detail four men to stay with the cars. Let’s
go!” The other cars had arrived and unloaded.

“Well,” said Elaine bitterly, to anyone who cared to listen, as she
watched Captain Carter, her brother and some fifty infantrymen start
for the bridge in what looked more like a free-for-all race than an
orderly advance, “I’ll never forgive that John Webb or that Bill
Carter, either!”

She started her car, turned, waved good-bye to the four disgruntled
doughboys left behind, and headed for the Fort.

But instead of keeping on the trail, after she had gone about five
miles, she turned sharply to the left. As she did, she said to the
wheel: “I’ll bet anything I can get right around in back of the Three
C. That’s the old ranch I saw the other day, and--” The trail she had
turned on began to narrow and twist, and Elaine wisely decided to put
her attention on her driving. About half an hour later, she said aloud:
“That darn’ road I came down ought to be around here somewhere. I know
I passed that big rock right after-- There it is!”

                   *       *       *       *       *

The trail leading off to the left could hardly be called a trail, let
alone a “road,” as Elaine named it. It was hardly wide enough for a
car, even where it tied in with the one she was on. Now there was a lot
of fallen timber and rocks in it. “My heavens,” she said, standing up
and looking it over, “I’ll bet that cloudburst has ruined it. I can’t
drive over that! I guess I’ll have to go back. Well, I wont, and that’s
that. This road leads up in the hills right back of the Three C, and
I’m going to find out if--” The last was said as she was getting out,
and the wheel,--not deigning to get into an argument with a red-headed
young lady,--keeping quiet, Elaine started up the trail on foot. It was
much farther than she thought, and after a steady climb for more than
an hour, without sighting the hill she was sure topped the old ranch
buildings, she decided to sit down and rest.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Just then the sound of shots came down the trail to her; then a moment
later, the patter of running feet. The trail, a little above where she
was sitting, took a curve around a big boulder, and then another around
an outstanding ledge.

Without a second’s hesitation Elaine rolled off the rock she was sitting
on and burrowed into the tangled windfall behind it. In doing it, she
proved that she was, as Ma Earp had said, “a right smart girl” and
worthy of the border, where the old rule still holds good in spots: “If
it’s strange, it’s hostile.”

When she stopped, she was under cover, and by pulling a couple of the
branches over a little, could still see up the trail. As she did,
there were three more shots, and she heard someone wail, “_Madre de
Dios! Soy muerto!_” Then, rounding the curve and running as fast as
they could, falling over rocks and windfalls, scrambling up, came four
of Garcia’s band, who had tried to ambush some Texas rangers. Their
gay serapes were torn and muddy, their heads bare, their mouths open
and their faces expressing their one thought, which was to get as far
away as possible from whatever was behind them. They came by Elaine’s
hole-up so fast they did not even look in her direction.

“My goodness gracious,” she gasped, “they must be--the boys must have
ar-- Oh! It’s--it’s Bud!” and she pushed her way out.

[Illustration: Coming down the trail, slowly but with grim
determination, was Mr. Buford Yancey, Texas Ranger.]

Coming down the trail, slowly but with grim determination, on foot, with
rough homemade bandages on him in several places, a rakish reddened one
around his head, almost covering one eye, was Mr. Buford Yancey, Texas
ranger. In addition to the above-described decorations, he had firmly
held in his right hand an old ivory-handled .45; and around his waist,
hanging on one side almost to his knee, was a belt in which most of the
cartridge loops were empty. His face and lips looked gray, but his eyes
were holding the same look that they did when he stepped into the street
that day at Wirton; and on his gray lips was the same little frozen
smile. Back of him, about ten feet, came another young man, with about
the same number of bandages, the same kind of a gun in his hand--and
quite the same kind of a look and smile.

                   *       *       *       *       *

When Elaine rose to her feet from the windfall, Bud stopped and regarded
her gravely, a puzzled look taking the place of the cold, bleak one in
his eyes. He stood there swaying a little; then he shook his head and
closed his eyes for a moment, as if to get rid of a vision. Sam Earp had
come up when he opened them. As he did, Bud looked at Elaine and
announced gravely: “We’re goin’ to chase those jaspers plumb through to
the Guatemala border. You go on home, if you’re real.” And he started
down the trail.

“Bud Yancey,” said Elaine, taking the one hop necessary to get in
front of him, “you are not! You are not going another step. Why, you
are wounded and everything! Bud--you can’t go and leave me here! I’m
afraid! Don’t leave me, Bud.”

Sam Earp had stood there, doing more than a little swaying on his
own account. “That’s right,” he said solemnly. “It’s your girl, Bud.
Can’t leave any woman who’s scared--you stay and I’ll go and get us
those _hombres_.” Mr. Earp, having settled the matter, started out;
but on making the first step, he slid to the ground and lay there.

“Doggone!” said Bud, looking down on him. “Sam’s out--and Bill is
out--and Capt’n Coudray is full of lead. Reckon it’s up to me to do
the protectin’. Come on.”

“Oh, thank God!” Elaine had been standing so that she could see up the
trail. As she spoke, Bud tried to turn around. He made it halfway; then
as his eye caught the flash of steel and the brown of khaki uniforms, he
joined Mr. Sam Earp on the ground at Elaine’s feet.

Lieutenant Webb, a sergeant and twelve or fourteen men, arrived a moment
later.

After one look at the rangers, he snapped out several orders that
resulted in improvised slings attached to gun-barrels. All the way
down the trail until Elaine’s car came in sight, he did not speak to
her. Garcia’s men had turned off the trail, heading south before they
reached the car, and it was as she had left it. Finally Elaine eased
over beside him.

“Jack, do you think that he--that they are badly wounded?”

“I don’t think so. If they had been, they couldn’t have chased those
birds up and down hills.” He had fully intended sending Miss Elaine
Norcross Webb home to New York with only a few chosen words, but the
sight of her woebegone little face and the real tears in her eyes
made him change his mind. “We got there just as Garcia was making a
final charge with all his outfit. These lads were holed up in the
house with two or three more. Boy, howdy, it was lovely billiards!
They were so intent on scragging the rangers that we snuck up on ’em.
There was enough of them left to make it even. Hot damn, Lainy, old
kid, we run ’em ragged! You ought to have seen the ground in front of
the house and on the sides where they’d tried before. It was covered
with--”

“How did Bud and Sam Earp get--” interrupted Elaine.

“Why, some of them scattered out toward the hill in the rear, and all
of a sudden the side door came busting open, and out came those two
young hell-cats.” (Lieutenant Webb was all of twenty-four.) “And up
the hill they took after them. I jarred loose, thinking you might want
to see your dear Bud in the flesh once more, and rounded up these men
and came after--Say, that reminds me: just how come you here, madam?”

“Three of them came running by,” Elaine said, ignoring the question,
“and then Bud and--”

“Three of them? Holy mackinaw! I wonder if those two got all the rest.
This Bud Yancey of yours didn’t act much as if--”

A soldier came back and saluted. “If the Lieutenant pleases, the ranger
ahead has come to and is asking for Miss Webb.”

“Go ahead, Lainy,” Webb started to say, but Elaine was already on her
way.

                   *       *       *       *       *

She slipped in between the bearers and took firm hold of Bud’s hand.

“Bud, are you all right? Tell me.”

“I am now,” answered Bud, with a grin that was rather a weak one, but a
grin just the same. “Darlin’, I knew it was you up yonder, and all the
time I didn’t, some way. Honey, you’re a right nice girl, and I love you
like--”

“Bud Yancey, you are not to talk. You just lie still. Bud--I’m sorry I
said that--”

“Darlin’, you better tell me right quick if you’re going to love me,
while I’m not dizzy and--”

“If you don’t keep still,” threatened Elaine, “I wont tell you, ever,
that I love you. And--and--I do, Bud.”


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the November, 1929 issue
of _Blue Book_ magazine.]




*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WAR PAINT ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


