The Project Gutenberg eBook of A millionaire at sixteen
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: A millionaire at sixteen
        or, The cruise of the Guardian-Mother

Author: Oliver Optic

Illustrator: A. B. Shute

Release date: October 12, 2025 [eBook #77036]

Language: English

Original publication: Boston: Lee and Shepard, 1892

Credits: Aaron Adrignola, David E. Brown, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A MILLIONAIRE AT SIXTEEN ***





ALL-OVER-THE-WORLD LIBRARY

By OLIVER OPTIC

_Illustrated, Price per Volume $1.25_


FIRST SERIES

  A MISSING MILLION
        Or THE ADVENTURES OF LOUIS BELGRAVE

  A MILLIONAIRE AT SIXTEEN
        Or THE CRUISE OF THE GUARDIAN-MOTHER

  A YOUNG KNIGHT-ERRANT
        Or CRUISING IN THE WEST INDIES

  STRANGE SIGHTS ABROAD
        Or A VOYAGE IN EUROPEAN WATERS


SECOND SERIES

  AMERICAN BOYS AFLOAT
        Or CRUISING IN THE ORIENT

  THE YOUNG NAVIGATORS
        Or THE FOREIGN CRUISE OF THE MAUD

  UP AND DOWN THE NILE
        Or YOUNG ADVENTURERS IN AFRICA

  ASIATIC BREEZES
        Or STUDENTS ON THE WING


THIRD SERIES

  ACROSS INDIA
        Or LIVE BOYS IN THE FAR EAST

  HALF ROUND THE WORLD
        Or AMONG THE UNCIVILIZED

  FOUR YOUNG EXPLORERS
        Or SIGHT-SEEING IN THE TROPICS


  _OTHER VOLUMES IN PREPARATION_
  ANY VOLUME SOLD SEPARATELY


  LEE AND SHEPARD Publishers Boston




[Illustration: “COME BACK, MR. BELGRAVE! FOR HEAVEN’S SAKE COME BACK!”
Page 278.]




  _All-Over-the-World Series_

  A

  MILLIONAIRE AT SIXTEEN

  OR

  THE CRUISE OF THE GUARDIAN-MOTHER

  BY
  OLIVER OPTIC

  AUTHOR OF “THE ARMY AND NAVY SERIES” “YOUNG AMERICA ABROAD”
  FIRST AND SECOND SERIES “THE GREAT WESTERN SERIES” “THE WOODVILLE
  STORIES” “THE STARRY FLAG SERIES” “THE BOAT-CLUB
  STORIES” “THE ONWARD AND UPWARD SERIES” “THE YACHT-CLUB
  SERIES” “THE RIVERDALE STORIES” “THE BOAT-BUILDER
  SERIES” “TAKEN BY THE ENEMY” “WITHIN THE ENEMY’S
  LINES” “ON THE BLOCKADE” “STAND BY THE
  UNION” “FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT”
  “A MISSING MILLION” ETC.

  BOSTON
  LEE AND SHEPARD PUBLISHERS
  10 MILK STREET
  1896




  COPYRIGHT, 1892, BY LEE AND SHEPARD

  _All Rights Reserved_

  A MILLIONAIRE AT SIXTEEN

  TYPE-SETTING AND ELECTROTYPING BY
  C. J. PETERS & SON, BOSTON




  TO
  MY FRIEND AND CO-LABORER IN OUR VINEYARD

  Nathan Bangs Williams

  THIS VOLUME IS VERY CORDIALLY INSCRIBED
  WITH MY KINDEST REGARDS




PREFACE


“A MILLIONAIRE AT SIXTEEN” is the second volume of the “All-Over-the-World”
series; and while the book may be read independently of the first,
it is the continuation of the adventures of Louis Belgrave, who was
presented to the reader in the preceding story. Possibly some of my
numerous friends may have accused me, after reading the first volume,
with being unnecessarily liberal to my hero, in supplying him with “the
missing million,” even augmented to nearly half as much more, so that
he is actually a millionaire and a half; but the present story will
assure such critics that even this vast sum was necessary in carrying
out the purpose of the writer. But no one need tremble for his moral
safety, for he will find that the young man in his moneyed abundance
is well guarded by his “guardian-mother,” and by his prudent and
conservative trustee.

The magnificent steam-yacht, the purchase of which required the figure
at which the fortune of the hero was placed, was not obtained for
sporting and pleasure uses; for Louis Belgrave has no taste for racing,
and is utterly opposed to betting, or anything that can be construed as
such. He had acquired a relish for yachting, though he was extremely
modest in his desire in regard to the character and cost of his craft.
The exigency of the story demanded such a steamer as he was persuaded
by his accomplished nautical friend to purchase. This was the only
excuse he could find for such a degree of extravagance; but happily
his income enables him to stand the expense of sailing such a steamer.
He was actuated by the very highest of motives in consenting to buy
the yacht, and, in fact, it seemed to him to be his duty to do so. His
mother, whom he almost worships, is borne away from him over the ocean,
and the steamer seemed to him and his advisers the only means by which
he could recover her, and restore her to her friends. With such an
object in view, money was hardly to be considered.

The writer still holds to his belief set forth in the preceding volume
that exciting incidents do not corrupt or mislead the minds and hearts
of young people, and he still keeps his hero above reproach morally;
and his magnificent venture is intended to promote his education, to
make him a wise and good man. He has no vices, and under the system of
his nautical friend, he is not likely to acquire any.

                                                       WILLIAM T. ADAMS.

  DORCHESTER, MASS., March 5, 1892.




CONTENTS

                                        PAGE
                 CHAPTER I
  INTRODUCING SIR LOUIS BELGRAVE           1

                 CHAPTER II
  SOMETHING ABOUT THE BELGRAVE FAMILY     10

                CHAPTER III
  INTRODUCING ANOTHER MILLIONAIRE         17

                 CHAPTER IV
  THE PARTY THAT WENT TO SOUTHFIELD       25

                 CHAPTER V
  THE VICTIM OF A CONSPIRACY              33

                 CHAPTER VI
  A DISAGREEABLE REVELATION               41

                CHAPTER VII
  THE CONFERENCE IN THE STATEROOM         49

                CHAPTER VIII
  BOUND TO ENGLAND                        57

                 CHAPTER IX
  A DINNER IN THE SECOND CABIN            65

                 CHAPTER X
  A SKIRMISH WITH LIGHT WORDS             73

                 CHAPTER XI
  A BATTLE IN POLITENESS                  81

                CHAPTER XII
  THE POSSESSOR OF A MIGHTY SECRET        89

                CHAPTER XIII
  CLOSING WITH THE ENEMY                  97

                CHAPTER XIV
  THE VICTORY IN THE CABIN               106

                 CHAPTER XV
  AN OBDURATE PRISONER                   113

                CHAPTER XVI
  ALLEGIANCE TO THE POWERS THAT BE       121

                CHAPTER XVII
  THE MAUD’S NEW COMMANDER               129

               CHAPTER XVIII
  SOME SIGNS OF TREACHERY                137

                CHAPTER XIX
  EUCHRED ON THE SHORE                   145

                 CHAPTER XX
  IN PURSUIT OF THE MAUD                 153

                CHAPTER XXI
  FELIX MCGAVONTY ON WATCH               161

                CHAPTER XXII
  MRS. BELGRAVE’S PROTECTOR              170

               CHAPTER XXIII
  THE SEARCH FOR THE MAUD                178

                CHAPTER XXIV
  THE GUARDIAN-MOTHER                    186

                CHAPTER XXV
  ON BOARD OF THE PHANTOM                194

                CHAPTER XXVI
  AMONG THE PINES                        202

               CHAPTER XXVII
  AN AGENT OF THE ENEMY                  210

               CHAPTER XXVIII
  THE LAST OF THE PHANTOM                218

                CHAPTER XXIX
  LEFT ON A SANDBANK                     226

                CHAPTER XXX
  A HUNGRY MILLIONAIRE                   234

                CHAPTER XXXI
  THE MAGNIFICENT STEAMER                242

               CHAPTER XXXII
  A FORMAL PRESENTATION                  250

               CHAPTER XXXIII
  ON BOARD THE GUARDIAN-MOTHER           258

               CHAPTER XXXIV
  A WRECK ON THE BERMUDA REEF            266

                CHAPTER XXXV
  THE RETURN TO THE GUARDIAN-MOTHER      274

               CHAPTER XXXVI
  A HAPPY REUNION                        282

               CHAPTER XXXVII
  JOHN SCOBLE’S ANTECEDENTS              291




A MILLIONAIRE AT SIXTEEN




CHAPTER I

INTRODUCING SIR LOUIS BELGRAVE


“Buy a yacht!” exclaimed Squire Moses Scarburn, a gentleman whose
avoirdupois exceeded two hundred pounds, honest weight, as he shook his
fat sides with wholesome laughter. “Why not buy an elephant?”

“I am not in want of an elephant just now,” replied Louis Belgrave, of
whose worldly goods and chattels the stout gentleman was the trustee.

“A yacht is a very expensive plaything, my little joker,” added the
trustee.

“So is an elephant; besides an elephant is clumsy, and a yacht is not.
I can’t say that I have the least desire to see the elephant.”

“I should as soon have thought of your proposing to buy an elephant as
a yacht,” continued Squire Scarburn, a shade more seriously.

“An elephant may be a luxury to some people, like the nabobs of India;
but my fancy does not lead me in that direction.”

“You could put a howdah on his back and ride him all over the State,
to the wonder and admiration of great crowds of small boys,” said the
squire, chuckling as he did habitually, sometimes even when discussing
serious subjects.

“I don’t care to make any such sensation as the huge beast would
produce. He would frighten horses and children, and I might be mulcted
in heavy damages, which would not please you any more than it would
me,” replied the millionaire of sixteen; for such he was, with an
income of seventy thousand dollars a year, which was a frightful
revenue for a young fellow of his age, to say nothing of a surplus,
as the trustee called it, of a hundred thousand or more for any
extraordinary expenditure.

His mother was a most excellent woman, rather timid by nature, and made
more so by the circumstances which had surrounded her recently. The
greatest fear of her present existence was that her beloved son, her
only child, would be ruined by his million, though the trustee insisted
that there was not the slightest danger of such a calamity.

Though Squire Scarburn held the purse strings, Louis’s mother was
his legal guardian, and the trustee could refuse to advance money
for anything she did not approve. Mrs. Belgrave held the key to the
situation; but she was the most indulgent of mothers, and her son had
a great influence over her, not only because he was one of the most
considerate, devoted, and reasonable young men in the world, but for
other reasons which appear in the past history of the family; and
practically the young gentleman was his own master.

“Well, Sir Louis Belgrave, an elephant may be expensive in the
direction you indicate, and perhaps an elephant is not precisely the
beast to carry a young knight-errant about the country. Possibly a
mule would be more appropriate and less expensive,” continued Squire
Scarburn, intensely amused at the picture he was painting at the
expense of Louis. “Suppose you buy a mule; and then you will want a
donkey for Felix McGavonty, for I conclude you intend to make him your
squire.”

“Not a bit of it, Uncle Moses,” as the two boys mentioned usually
called him, for both were his _protégés_; “I want you for my Sancho
Panza. Nothing less than a justice of the peace and a man of some
weight in the community shall be my squire. Oh, I desire to carry out
your brilliant idea in a respectable manner!”

“I certainly have the weight; but don’t you think I am a little too
stout for an errant squire, though I should do very well for office
practice? I weigh over two hundred pounds,” replied Uncle Moses,
greatly amused at the fancy of his ward; and he enjoyed it none the
less because the jest was at his own expense.

“You are not a pound too heavy!” exclaimed Louis. “The fatter you are
the more ridiculous the whole thing will be; and I know that is what
you are driving at. If you weighed five hundred pounds I should like
you all the better for my squire.”

“I fear I should not be spry enough for you, Sir Louis, and I must
decline the situation in favor of Felix. I shall have no serious
objection to the expense of a mule for you and a donkey for Felix. That
would not exhaust your income of seventy thousand for this year.”

“I don’t believe it would, sir. Why, the other day you were making
fun of me because you could not see how I was to spend even half of
my income! The fact of it is, Uncle Moses, you have invested the
million and more too well, five and six per cent; and you are going to
make it hard work for me to get away with what is coming to me every
twelvemonth.”

“The misfortune is, Sir Louis, that you and your mother are not
accustomed to this plethora of income, and you have not yet got a fair
hold on the seventy thousand a year. You don’t exactly know which way
to turn to make a big hole in your revenue. But I have no doubt you
will improve in good time,” chuckled the trustee.

“I have no idea of being whipped out by an income, however large it
may be,” replied Louis, still in the best of humor, in spite of the
heavy burden imposed upon him by Fate and his grandfather of spending
his income. “I have projects and schemes in my head, Uncle Moses,
that would make you dizzy if I should mention them; and as I wish you
to have a level head I will not say anything at all about them yet a
while.”

“A million dollars, more or less, is a sufficiently large fortune for
any American citizen to possess,” continued the trustee, smoothing down
his fat face for the first time in a full hour, as though he intended
to say something more serious.

“I should say that a man with a million ought to escape starvation, if
his money is as well invested as you have placed mine,” replied Louis.

“No levity, my little joker, for I was about to say something very
serious,” added the squire.

“Are you about to propose the fat man in the Dime Museum for my squire?”

“I have done with that subject for the present, though I don’t know how
soon you may compel me to resume it. I am, unhappily for you, Louis,
the sole trustee of all your property.”

“Unhappily! Why, the fact that you are my trustee is the one thing
under the sun that saves me from the necessity of committing suicide
by over-eating!” exclaimed the young millionaire. “I might have had
some old hunks for a trustee, who wouldn’t do a single thing to help
me spend my bulky income. In that case I should rather not have any
million.”

“You keep flying off at a tangent so that I can’t ventilate my views in
regard to big fortunes,” said Uncle Moses, trying to look serious. “I
dare say you have forgotten my introduction to this subject.”

“No, sir, I have not; you observed that a man with a million was just
as well off as a rich man.”

“I did not put the remark in just that form; but that is the substance
of what I said. Compared with some men in this country, Louis, you
are a poor boy with only a million. But you need not starve, and you
need not go about the streets in ragged garments, if you are only
economical.”

“I have already learned to live within my means, and so has my
mother; so I think we shall contrive to get along without any
absolute suffering. On seventy thousand a year we ought to be fairly
comfortable. But I wonder how those poor people who have only twenty or
thirty thousand a year contrive to get along. Do they go hungry and out
at the elbows?”

“I suppose they do, metaphorically at least. They have to live on their
fat as I do.”

“They don’t all have it to live on.”

“They grub along somehow; and you who have enough to keep you out of
the almshouse ought to be kind and charitable when you meet a poor
fellow with only twenty thousand a year. But we wander. A million is
enough for you; and in view of the fact that you are confronting some
difficulty in spending even half of your income, my responsibility as
trustee is becoming very serious.”

“I am sorry for you, my dear trustee, and I am sure I shall make your
duties come easier upon you by and by; but I hope this heavy burden
will not cause you to lose any of your flesh,” laughed Louis.

“I am willing to sacrifice half of my fat in any good cause, such as
saving you from the disaster of becoming a double millionaire, or
even worse than that. Buy a yacht? Certainly! Purchase half a dozen
of them rather than have your fortune increased. That would compel me
to make additional investments for you, and I should be overworked,”
said the good man, puffing as though he were already suffering from his
financial exertions.

“I don’t want a high-flyer yacht like the Blanche. I have my own ideas
of yachting; and I am afraid I shall not be able to do a great deal in
getting rid of the income; but I will exert myself in that direction.”

“That’s right, Sir Louis; do the best you can for me,” added Uncle
Moses, fanning himself with a newspaper, as though wrestling with the
young man’s income had unduly heated his corpulent frame.

“I am afraid I am not competent to scatter a very large income; but I
will do the best I can. I was not brought up to that occupation.”

“I suppose you have your eye on a yacht that will suit you?”

“No, sir; not my eye, but my mind is on one. I was talking with a
gentleman at the hotel to-day about yachting, and he did me the honor
to say that I had the right ideas on the subject.”

“What are your ideas, Sir Louis?”

“I do not desire an expensive yacht; an ordinary schooner that will not
cost over five thousand dollars, with not over six men, will satisfy
me. I want to go from port to port, and enjoy myself in a quiet way,
and take my mother with me.”

“That sounds very sensible for a young knight-errant,” added the squire.

“You insist upon setting me down as a sort of Don Quixote who wants
to be tilting at windmills and wine-sacks all the time; but I don’t
believe I am that sort of a fellow at all,” said Louis seriously.

“I think you are fond of adventures, like the average boy, wherever
you find him, if he has any life in him. Now that you have plenty of
money you can gratify your tastes, whatever they may prove to be, for
heretofore you have had no chance to spread yourself.”

“I have had all the excitement I needed, and I have never ceased to
enjoy my studies, especially French and German.”

“Now, Sir Louis, my boy, I am not an old woman, or a man without
any vertebral stiffening. You have always been a good boy; you have
faithfully attended to all your duties, and have not been in the least
inclined to be a spendthrift. For these reasons I have full confidence
in you. But I solemnly warn you, little joker, that if you get to
running too fast, if you are in danger of spoiling yourself or letting
others spoil you, I shall shut down upon you like an avalanche in money
matters, even if I am compelled to invest your unexpended income.”

“That’s fair, Uncle Moses; but Don Quixote was a cheap sort of
knight-errant, and if I imitate him, I am not likely to follow the
career of the Prodigal Son.”

“I am willing to pay all reasonable bills approved by your mother, who
is your legal guardian. What would be reasonable for a young fellow
with seventy thousand a year would not be at all reasonable for one
with only ten thousand; so that I shall be liberal with you. Though you
inherit your grandfather’s money, you are to a considerable extent the
architect of your own fortune, for you unearthed the missing million.”

“I think I understand you perfectly, Uncle Moses.”

“I should think you might; but understand, above all things, that
I have not the remotest idea of permitting myself in any degree to
contribute to your ruin or injury by giving you too much money, though
you shall have all you can use in a reasonable manner, your mother
and myself to be judges of what is proper. As you are aware, I have
over a hundred thousand dollars surplus, which can be used for any
extraordinary expenditure needed at the beginning of your career?”

“What could I possibly want with that?” asked Louis rather blankly.

“If you desire to live in a brownstone front on the Fifth Avenue, near
your good friend Mr. Woolridge, I should consider that within your
means,” replied the trustee with a pleasant smile.

“Whew!” exclaimed the young millionaire. “I don’t want anything of that
sort. It would be putting me into a cage, like a monkey.”

“Prefer adventures, Sir Louis,” added the squire with one of his
jelly-like laughs.

“I shall be satisfied for the present with a cheap yacht, of good size,
handsomely fixed up, with my mother’s parlor on board of her. I have
bigger ideas behind this one, but I will not lift the curtain yet. If
you don’t want to lecture me any more now, I will go and see Mr. Frinks
Fobbington at the hotel; and he is the gentleman who talks yacht with
me.”

“Nothing more now, Sir Louis,” replied Uncle Moses. “But when you get
ready to buy the vessel, I shall want my friend Captain Ringgold to see
her.”

Louis left the office, and soon reached the hotel.




CHAPTER II

SOMETHING ABOUT THE BELGRAVE FAMILY


Sir Louis Belgrave, as Squire Scarburn insisted upon calling the
millionaire hero, had never been dubbed a knight in the nineteenth
century, for chivalry is an obsolete institution. He was a very
enterprising young man, and he had already done some “big things.”
There was no king or queen, no legion of honor, no National Academy, to
honor him with a title or give him a bit of ribbon, and Uncle Moses had
conferred the former upon him.

The title was a mere pleasantry, and did not amount to a “hill of
beans” in a republican country. It was rather derisive than otherwise;
yet it seemed to please the worthy trustee, and simply expressed his
idea that the boy was fond of adventure.

Peter Belgrave was the paternal grandfather of Louis. He had
married the daughter of Hans Von Blonk, and through her had come
into possession of an immense tract of land, which had been the old
Dutchman’s farm. This territory became very valuable, and even before
the owner of it died it was largely covered with houses, mostly
occupied by residents of New York City, and received the name of Von
Blonk Park, because Dutch names were fashionable at that time.

Peter was a shrewd man, and sold his land at high prices. Almost in
spite of himself he accumulated about two millions of dollars, which he
invested. He had only one child, Paul Belgrave, the father of Louis.
When the War of the Rebellion broke out, this boy was filled with
patriotism, and soon went into the army.

Peter’s patriotism did not amount to much, for he believed the war
would be the utter ruin of the country, and that the Confederate Army
would soon be in New York City. His property was his only solicitude,
for he was satisfied in his own mind that the work of confiscation
would soon begin in the metropolis. He turned all his large fortune
into gold, and stored it for a time in a safe deposit institution. Then
he built a brick vault for it under the old-fashioned chimney in the
cellar of his ancient mansion. It took him six months to move the money
to his house.

His wife had died before the departure of his son, and the old man
lived alone in the old house. He had been a mason in his younger
days, and he had the skill to build the vault without assistance from
any one. While the war was still raging, and his son was far away,
Peter dropped dead of apoplexy. He had been entirely secret in all
his precautions for the safety of his money, and had no confidant.
His secret went down to the grave with him, and there it remained for
nearly twenty years.

Paul Belgrave was severely wounded in one of his battles, was sent home
and discharged. He was a partial invalid for years, but he married
Maud Nashwood, the daughter of his guardian, who was the belle of
the county. He continued to live in the ancient mansion, and he never
gave up the search for the missing million; but he died without having
obtained the slightest clew to the lost treasure.

Mrs. Belgrave was a beautiful woman at thirty-three, and many sought
the hand of the fair widow. About two years after the death of her
husband there came to the Park a good-looking man by the name of Wade
Farrongate. He met the widow in society and church. He was a noted
connoisseur in horses, attended all the races, took part in them, and
was a marvellous jockey. He trained horses for the course, managed
pools, and held the stakes of the betters.

He was a handsome man, and several of the ladies he met would have been
glad to join their fortunes to those of the brilliant horseman. But Mr.
Farrongate would look at no one but the fair widow; and though she was
a member of the church, active in all good works, she could not resist
the good-looking horse-trainer. He married her, and all went well with
them for a couple of years.

From the beginning Farrongate seemed to take a dislike to Louis
Belgrave, though the boy tried to be pleasant, and used every means
within his reach, for his mother’s sake, to conciliate him; but he
would not be conciliated.

Louis overheard a conversation between Farrongate and his mother, and
ascertained that the jockey proposed to return to England, where he
was born and had lived most of his life, taking his wife and her son
with him. At another time he listened to a conference between the
horse-trainer and an old citizen of the Park, in which Farrongate
manifested a strong desire to learn all the particulars relating to the
missing fortune of Peter Belgrave.

Louis was satisfied that Farrongate had married his mother from
mercenary motives. Her deceased husband had made a will in which he
left all he had, wherever it might be found, to Louis, his only child.
He gave to his wife, while she remained his widow, the use of the old
house with the half an acre of ground on which it was built, together
with a couple of new houses he had erected and rented, and also made
her the guardian of their son. In case the boy should die before he
became of age, all the property was to go to the wife. Squire Moses
Scarburn was appointed executor and trustee under the will.

Louis was treated very roughly by his stepfather, in spite of the
youth’s efforts to conciliate him. The jockey abused him, resorting at
last even to blows. The high-spirited young fellow rebelled. He was
entirely satisfied in his own mind that Farrongate was wicked enough to
put him out of the way, so that his mother could inherit the property,
including the missing million, which hardly any person believed would
ever be recovered. Louis was inclined to believe that the jockey had
some exclusive information in regard to the lost treasure.

When Louis could no longer endure his lot at home, he made a confidant
of Squire Scarburn, telling him all he had overheard in regard to the
jockey’s plans. Farrongate admitted to his wife that his real name
was John Scoble, and that he was a deserter from the British army. He
pretended that some strong reasons compelled him to leave the country
of his adoption, and return to his native land.

Farrongate had induced his wife to believe that he sincerely wished to
live a good and true life. The poor woman was so infatuated with her
husband, who had always treated her very kindly, however it was with
her son, that she finally consented to go with him, and take Louis with
her. But after all he had heard from the lips of his stepfather, her
son would not submit to be taken to England, for he was sure that the
plan of going was a conspiracy against his health and happiness, if not
against his very life.

The boy rebelled, though he said not a word at home. He was not
infatuated with the jockey, as his mother was, and was confident that
he was concerned in some villainy on this side of the ocean, which made
it necessary for him to quit the country. Mrs. Farrongate and her son
were to leave the Park by a late train, and go on board of a steamer
that sailed at five o’clock in the morning; but their destination was
concealed from Louis.

The stepson had reason to believe that the occasion for going abroad
was to be created at the races the next day, and he made it his
business to ascertain the nature of this excuse. On the day Mrs.
Farrongate was to leave her home to take the steamer, Louis had a
quarrel with his stepfather, and in defence of himself and his mother
actually knocked him down with a cane. Then he fled from the house,
and the next day went to the races. At the close of the day Farrongate
decamped without warning, taking with him all the money in his hands
belonging to the pools or held as stakes.

Louis went to the pier where the steamer lay late in the evening, with
a newspaper extra announcing the robbery in his pocket, and found
his mother there. With the aid of the extra he was able to prove to
her that her husband was a thief and a swindler, and she consented
to abandon him, returning to the Park with Louis’s friend, Felix
McGavonty. The stepson remained in New York to watch the movements of
the swindler.

The jockey went on board of the steamer in disguise, carrying a little
valise in his hand. Louis contrived to obtain possession of the valise,
which was found to contain all the money the jockey had stolen, and
all he had obtained in other ways. With the aid of a sporting nabob,
reformed by the hero, all the stolen money was returned to its owners.

Farrongate was arrested as a deserter on his arrival in England, and
sent to his regiment. For two years Louis and his mother were not
disturbed by him; but when the deserter was discharged, he inherited
a sum of money from an uncle in India. Purchasing a vessel, he sailed
for New York, and is coming up the harbor when he is discovered by the
stepson, who is on board of the nabob’s yacht, on a pleasure excursion
with his mother. Louis is captured by the jockey, but effects his
escape. This exciting event is concealed from his mother, who is in
constant dread that her husband will return; though she has repudiated
him and taken the name of her first husband. Farrongate and his
schooner disappear after this event, and Louis and his mother are at
peace.

The boy, who had been a firm believer that the missing million would
be found, applies himself with energy to the task of finding it. In
the end he is successful, and becomes a millionaire at sixteen. Squire
Scarburn invested the money for him; and the young man finds himself in
the enjoyment of an income of seventy thousand dollars a year, besides
a surplus of a hundred thousand dollars, for the million proved to be
much more than that sum. A fine house was to be erected on the site of
the old one for the young man and his mother.

Mr. Woolridge, the nabob, abandons the race-course in order to save
his young son from its influences, and takes to yachting. Louis and
his mother were often his guests on board of the Blanche, and in this
manner the young millionaire acquires a taste for the sea and sailing.
He now desired to have a yacht of his own, though his ideas of yachting
were quite peculiar.




CHAPTER III

INTRODUCING ANOTHER MILLIONAIRE


Mr. Frinks Fobbington was not over twenty-five years old, was well
dressed in seemly black, and used the English language as though he was
liberally educated. The only inconsistency Louis noticed about him was
that his hands were hard, rough, and discolored, as though he used them
in some manual labor, to which, however, he did not object.

The hotel at Von Blonk Park was a very respectable establishment,
usually filled with boarders engaged in business in New York, distant
less than half an hour’s ride. Mr. Fobbington appeared to be a guest
there, and had taken considerable trouble to make the acquaintance of
Louis Belgrave; but he seemed to be a stranger, and there was no one to
introduce him.

Professor Seveignien was a boarder at the hotel. Louis had taken
lessons of him two years, though he had now discontinued them; but he
and his instructor were still warm friends, and his pupil occasionally
called upon him. While waiting to see him on the piazza one day, Mr.
Fobbington spoke to him. He was very polite, and the young millionaire
endeavored to make himself agreeable.

Of course they talked about the weather in due form, as an
introduction to more inviting topics. Then the stranger thought
the Park was a beautiful place, and as Louis was a native of the
delightful resort, as few of its present inhabitants were, he was duly
appreciative of the compliment; but by this time the resident of the
town could not help seeing that the stranger had some object in view,
and he began to wonder what he was driving at.

“I sat within hearing of you last evening, Mr. Belgrave, when you
were in conversation with Professor Seveignien,” said Mr. Fobbington,
apparently coming a little nearer to the subject.

“Are you acquainted with the professor, sir?” asked Louis.

“No, sir; not at all, I regret to say, for he is a very attractive
person.” Mr. Fobbington had inquired about him of the clerk.

“But we were speaking in French,” added Louis, looking with interest
into the face of the stranger.

“Precisely so,” replied Mr. Fobbington, with an expressive smile.

“I always talk French with the professor for the sake of practice.”

“It requires a great deal of practice to enable one to speak French
fluently,” said the stranger, using that language. “I was very much
surprised to observe how well you spoke it. You handle it better than I
do, though I have lived a year in Paris.”

Louis suggested that he had lived there long enough to acquire the
art of complimenting. Mr. Fobbington had made a long reach into the
good-will of Louis by speaking French to him, for the young man
was a very enthusiastic student of the language. Still using it the
accomplished gentleman from Louis knew not where, though he thought
his companion must be an Englishman, for his English was even better
than his French, came still nearer the subject he was clearly trying to
introduce.

“You were talking with the professor about yachting,” continued Mr.
Fobbington. “I was exceedingly pleased with your views on that subject,
especially as they fully conform to my own.”

“I am happy to meet a gentleman whose views agree with mine.”

“More than that, Mr. Belgrave, I have had no little experience
in carrying out those views,” added the stranger, with a gush of
enthusiasm.

“Indeed?”

“I am an Englishman, an Oxford graduate as you would say in America,
and it was my good or evil fortune to inherit an estate which yields a
large income. Of course I have to look about me to find the means to
spend this income,” Mr. Fobbington proceeded, laughing heartily at the
gigantic witticism he had perpetrated, though Louis thought Uncle Moses
had exhausted that fountain. “Well, I had some trouble about it, for I
am not a fast man. In fact, I never had any wild oats to sow.”

“You are fortunate,” added the embryo yachtsman.

“I don’t even drink wine or beer; and which way should a poor fellow
with ten thousand pounds a year turn to get rid of his income?”

Mr. Fobbington laughed heartily again; but Louis had just come from a
banquet of precisely this sort of humor.

“You said you had had some experience in carrying out the views we hold
in common,” suggested the Park millionaire.

“Exactly so. My friends, when they found I had a taste for the sea,
recommended me to purchase a yacht that would cost from ten to twenty
thousand pounds. I had been on a yacht cruise to the Mediterranean, and
on another to Norway; but I did not like the style of the thing, or
rather there was too much style about it,” Mr. Fobbington explained.

“That’s just the idea--too much style,” added Louis, who was beginning
to find his new friend a man after his own heart.

“In fact, I thought my two excursions would have been more enjoyable if
they had been made in an ordinary sort of vessel. There was too much
varnish, too much discipline, and everything was too nice and precise
for a free-and-easy time.”

“Just my own opinion,” said Louis, with growing enthusiasm.

“Badly as I wished to spend my income, I did not desire a yacht like
the Daydream, which was the name of my friend’s craft. To cut the story
short, I bought a nice schooner that had been used for a packet. She
was a good vessel, and she was built in America.”

“Built in America!” exclaimed Louis, who thought it very strange that
an English gentleman should cruise in an American-built vessel; but he
was not posted in navigation laws, and he made no objection.

“That is what her papers show,” added the stranger. “But I am wearying
you with this long story.”

“Not at all; I am very much interested in it. You seem to have
abandoned your schooner, and come to the United States to see the
country.”

“Not at all, my dear fellow, for I came over here in her. She is at
anchor at a place they call Southfield. But I have changed my plans,”
continued Mr. Fobbington, looking inquiringly into the face of his
companion, as if to ascertain what impression his narrative had made.

“Then you have become tired of yachting in accordance with your views
and mine?” Louis inquired.

“Far from it; but I am going around the world, and I find it would
take me about three years to do it in the Oxford,” replied the British
millionaire. “I cannot give so much time to it.”

“Then time is more valuable to you than money, is it?”

“Not exactly that, Mr. Belgrave,” replied Mr. Fobbington, looking
intently at the floor of the piazza as though he were in doubt whether
it was advisable to explain his position. “Money is no object to me, as
I have already hinted. But I am going to be frank with you, my friend,
though you may laugh at me for it.”

“If you say anything that is funny I shall be apt to laugh, but not
otherwise.”

“Whether you laugh or not I shall tell you what is in my mind; for
I must say, candidly, that I have a purpose in view,” continued the
yachtsman, his brow knitting as though he was engaged in doing some
very heavy thinking at that moment.

“I certainly do not wish you to reveal your private affairs to me.”

“But I shall do so none the less, for I begin to believe that we shall
yet be strong friends. My case is like that of a lobster: I have a lady
in my head.”

“Which is quite as proper in your case as in that of the lobster,”
replied Louis, refraining from even a smile that might hurt the
feelings of his new friend.

“She is the daughter of Sir William Lambold; and Ethel thinks her life
of me. I have received a letter from her since I came to America,” Mr.
Fobbington proceeded, drawing an envelope from his pocket, and pressing
it to his lips. “She says she cannot endure the separation for three
long years. That is the reason I have changed my plans.”

“I should say that was reason enough,” added Louis very seriously.

“I see, Mr. Belgrave; you are in love yourself!” exclaimed the owner of
the Oxford. “You can understand me.”

“I can understand you, though not for the reason you suggest,” answered
Louis, laughing heartily, and with a blush on his handsome face.
“Perhaps you may not believe it, but I am only sixteen years old,
though I am rather large for my age.”

“I should have said you were twenty, at least; but you might be in love
for all that.”

“Hardly, at sixteen,” said Louis, shaking his head.

“Boys in the States are frightfully precocious; and some of them are
married at that age.”

“Not one in a million; and I am not inclined to take even the first
steps at that age. Then you are going back to England by a steamer, Mr.
Fobbington, in order to meet the lady the sooner,” suggested Louis.

“Not a bit of it. I should be the laughing-stock of all my friends if
I did that, and backed out of my journey around the world. No; I shall
get rid of the Oxford, go by rail to San Francisco, and then by steamer
to Yokohama. In that way I shall be at home in less than six months,
and my friends cannot ridicule me.”

The embryo yachtsman thought they might ridicule him; but he began to
see that his agreeable companion had an axe to grind, and thought it
best to be a little more reserved.

“You will surely save time, though you will not have the pleasure of
yachting in strange climes,” added Louis indifferently. “I have an idea
that I shall go around the world in my yacht when I have one. I would
not miss the South Sea Islands in any event.”

“It has occurred to me that there would not be much pleasure in
yachting it around Cape Horn, or even through the Straits of Magellan.
To come to the point, I have been considering whether to burn the
Oxford or sink her in deep water.”

“It would be a pity to burn or sink her; you could do better than
that by giving her away,” suggested Louis, laughing at the apparent
desperation of the British millionaire.

“Give her away!” exclaimed he, springing to his feet as though the new
idea overwhelmed him. “By the great and moist Neptune I never thought
of that! Isn’t it strange how stupid a fellow can be when he gets into
a difficult situation?”

“It seems to me that presenting her to some friend would be a more
comfortable way of getting rid of her than sinking or burning her,”
said Louis, amused, but not greatly impressed by the conduct of his
British prototype.

“You are right, my dear friend; and I am under a thousand obligations
to you for solving this knotty problem for me. Now, Mr. Belgrave,
would you do me just one additional favor, and then be entitled to
my everlasting gratitude?” And Fobbington looked at him with an
earnestness which seemed to indicate that he was desperately in need of
further assistance in getting rid of the Oxford.

“I should be very glad to do anything I can to aid you,” replied Louis.

“I knew you would. Then do me the very great favor to accept the
Oxford as my free gift!” exclaimed the owner, grasping both of his new
friend’s hands, and with a pleading expression on his face.

“Excuse me, but I cannot do that,” protested Louis. “You may not be
aware of it, but I have an income, and I am distressed to find the
means to spend it.”

“Poor fellow!” But Fobbington evidently believed that Louis had
borrowed this idea from him.

“But after I have looked at her, I may be willing to buy the Oxford.”

“Then you shall see her at once,” added Mr. Fobbington.




CHAPTER IV

THE PARTY THAT WENT TO SOUTHFIELD


Mr. Fobbington would still be happy to present the Oxford to his new
friend; but confronting the difficulty of spending his income, he
sympathized with him, and would not insist upon making the vessel an
entirely free gift. They would compromise the matter by making it a
sale, a merely nominal sale. Louis must not insist upon paying him too
large a price for the craft, and the young millionaire promised not to
be very hard upon him in this respect.

“Though it is, of course, a matter of no consequence to me, I
should like to ask, out of mere curiosity, at what figure you value
the Oxford,” said Louis, after they had compromised the principal
difficulty of the situation.

“She cost me in Scotland, where I bought her, thirty-one hundred
pounds, or about fifteen thousand dollars; but, as a matter of mere
form, I am going to sell her to you for ten thousand,” replied Mr.
Fobbington very graciously. “You must really indulge me in taking
off five thousand from what she cost me. I think that will be a fair
compromise.”

“Perhaps we shall be able to agree after I have seen the vessel,”
replied Louis, not ready to commit himself; and the compromise price
was double what he thought of paying for such a craft as would suit
him.

“I hope we shall agree, Mr. Belgrave; but I solemnly assure you that
I shall not permit you to pay me the sum she cost me. No, sir! Rather
than do that, I will take the schooner out to sea and sink or burn
her!” protested the owner of the Oxford very warmly.

“Very well, my friend; I will not insist upon your taking more than
ten thousand dollars for the vessel,” replied the intending yachtsman,
beginning to wonder if his companion was as liberal and disinterested
as he assumed to be.

“Now, Mr. Belgrave, when will you look at the Oxford? I trust you will
make it as soon as possible. I hoped that you would do me the favor
to accept the schooner without paying me anything for her; and then I
could have taken the train to-night for San Francisco.”

“I am very sorry to delay you even a day; but it was quite impossible
for me to lose the opportunity to spend five or ten thousand dollars of
my income for a craft that would suit me. You know how it is yourself,
and you ought to sympathize with me,” added Louis, much amused. “I
should like to have my mother see the vessel, for she is to be the
companion of my voyages.”

“Excellent, my young friend! If there is anything in this world that
excites my admiration, it is to see a young man attentive to his
mother. Mothers don’t grow on every tree; in fact, I don’t remember
any fellow who ever had more than one mother. I like to see a fellow
devoted to his mother, and it is a trait in your character, Mr.
Belgrave,” rattled the owner of the Oxford.

“I think we can go down to Southfield to-morrow; I will call at the
hotel, and let you know at what time,” added Louis, rising from his
seat.

He took his leave of Mr. Fobbington, and returned to the house of
Squire Scarburn, where Mrs. Belgrave was staying during the erection
of the new house the trustee was building for her and her son. The
unfledged yachtsman could not help thinking of his new acquaintance
as he walked to the squire’s, but he was not willing to accept him as
a friend till he knew more about him. He had a vessel to sell which
had answered his purpose as a yacht, and perhaps it would be equally
satisfactory to the young millionaire.

It was about tea-time, and he found his mother and the trustee in the
parlor. During the meal he told them about the gentleman who owned the
Oxford, and they asked him a great many questions. Mrs. Belgrave was
willing to see the vessel, and would go with him at ten the next day to
Southfield.

“It seems rather singular to me, my son, that you should want a yacht,
when you were brought up away from the salt water,” said Mrs. Belgrave.

“I never should have thought of such a thing, if we had not been out so
many times with Mr. Woolridge and his family,” replied Louis.

“Especially his family,” suggested Uncle Moses, with a twinkle of the
eyes.

“Or a certain member of his family,” added the lady.

“That’s all nonsense, mother!” exclaimed the young gentleman, with a
bright blush on his face.

Mr. Woolridge, the nabob who had invited Louis and his mother to sail
in his yacht, had a beautiful daughter of fifteen, who had attracted
the attention of the young man. After looking at her as he would
have regarded a pretty picture, he had innocently spoken of her with
considerable enthusiasm, calling her a sylph. This was before he became
a “bloated bondholder,” and his mother had been afraid he would get
into entangling relations with a maiden whose rich and aristocratic
father would show him the door, and thus break his heart as well as
that of the sylph.

“I think you were very polite and attentive to Miss Blanche,” continued
Mrs. Belgrave.

“Wasn’t I as polite to Mrs. Woolridge?” demanded Louis, repelling the
insinuation with energy.

“If you were not, you ought to have been.”

“And I was, mother; besides you are not consistent. You have consented
to the purchase of a vessel for me, so that I can sail on my own hook
rather than be dependent upon Mr. Woolridge. Why should I do that if I
preferred the society of Miss Blanche?”

“I think the defence has the argument,” added Uncle Moses. “But perhaps
Sir Louis will invite the sylph to sail in his yacht. By the way, what
is her name?”

“The young lady’s, or the yacht’s?”

“I should expect they would both have the same name, if it did not take
an act of Congress to alter a vessel’s name. The young lady can change
hers with less difficulty,” twinkled the squire.

“The vessel is called the Oxford now, and one Blanche is enough.”

“One among ten thousand--the girl, and not the vessel.”

“I don’t think I shall change the name of either the young lady or the
vessel,” added Louis.

“We shall see the vessel to-morrow, and we will drop both her and the
sylph for the present,” interposed Mrs. Belgrave. “Don’t you think it
strange we hear nothing more from John Scoble?”

She looked at her son as though she expected him to answer the
question. She had an intense dread of the man who had been her husband
for two years. Louis had met Scoble face to face a few weeks before,
had stunned him with the blow of a stick, and escaped from him; but all
this had been concealed from his mother to save her from anxiety and
terror.

“I have heard nothing of Scoble lately,” replied the son, meaning since
he escaped from him; and he thought the subject had better be changed.
“I hope you will go down to Southfield with us, Uncle Moses, and see
the Oxford.”

“I should be very glad to go if I could; but I have an engagement,”
replied the squire. “Take Captain Ringgold with you if he will go. He
knows all about vessels, and I know nothing at all.”

“I will go over to his house and see him about it after supper.”

Nothing more was said about Scoble, to the great relief of the young
man. He wondered what had become of the miscreant and his vessel,
which he had named the “Maud” after his wife, doubtless to assist
in conciliating her, and thus make easy his approach to the missing
million. Mr. Woolridge had employed detectives to watch the schooner
and her owner; but one night the vessel disappeared, and nothing more
had been heard from her. Louis had studied the ship-news for weeks
without being any the wiser for it.

The intending yachtsman hastened to the house of Captain Ringgold as
soon as he had finished his supper, and found him at home. The worthy
shipmaster had retired from the sea at forty with a competency, not
much of it acquired, however, in his profession. He promptly consented
to go with Louis on his visit to the Oxford, and to assist him with his
knowledge and experience. He asked him some questions about the vessel,
and turned up his nose literally at the idea of purchasing such a craft
as he described.

“You are behind the times, Louis,” said he with emphasis. “You don’t
want an old tub like the one you tell me about. You ought to have a
steam-yacht.”

“A steam-yacht!” exclaimed Louis, laughing at the idea of such
extravagance. “I ought to be a ten-millionaire to be able to do that.”

“You could be reasonable in running a steam-yacht as in anything else.
If you are going to keep a yacht, have something first-class.”

“I don’t want a high-flyer, and I am not up to a steam-yacht,” replied
Louis, unmoved by the argument.

“I know a first-rate chance for you to get the finest steamer that
floats, brand-new, and to be sold at a fair price,” Captain Ringgold
proceeded. “Colonel Singfield had her built in the very best manner for
his own use. She had made her trial trip, and that is all, when the
colonel died.”

“How much would she cost?” asked the embryo yachtsman rather tamely.

“To settle the estate she can be bought, just as she stands, all ready
for sea, inside of a hundred thousand dollars, though she cost a good
deal more than that.”

“Neither my mother nor Uncle Moses would consent to the purchase of a
vessel so expensive as that,” said Louis, shaking his head.

“If I could afford it I would buy her, for I should like to command
just such a craft,” added the captain with enthusiasm.

“It is useless for me to think of buying such a vessel. What is her
name? I should like to see her; but I am sure she will not be bought
for me.”

“She has no name yet. Colonel Singfield wished his daughter to find a
name, and then they had not agreed upon it when her father died. You
could name her to suit yourself, Louis.”

“I must not even think of such a thing as a steam-yacht. It would be a
very expensive plaything,” persisted Louis.

“All right, Louis; I won’t say too much about it. I will go with you
to-morrow at the time you say,” added Captain Ringgold, as the visitor
took his leave.

Louis went to the hotel and made the arrangement for the trip with Mr.
Fobbington. On his return to the squire’s house, he found that Felix
McGavonty, who had been a crony of Louis since both of them wore short
clothes, also desired to see the Oxford, and Uncle Moses gave his
consent.

At the appointed time the party arrived at the station in Southfield,
and Mr. Frinks Fobbington was there to receive them. Louis thought he
looked very much disconcerted about something, though he could not
imagine why he was so.

“I am glad to see you, Louis,” said Frinks, as he took the hand of the
young nabob, though he did not gush as he had the day before. “But I
did not suppose you were going to bring the whole population of the
Park with you.”

The unexpected number of the party seemed to be the cause of the
dissatisfaction on the part of the owner of the Oxford, though Louis
could not understand why this should annoy him. He introduced his
mother and the others.

“This is Captain Ringgold,” said he, in presenting him. “He is an
expert in vessels, and I wanted his opinion of the Oxford.”

The party took a carriage and proceeded to a wharf.

[Illustration: “AS HE REACHED THE FOOT OF THE COMPANION-WAY, HE
DISCOVERED JOHN SCOBLE.” Page 34.]




CHAPTER V

THE VICTIM OF A CONSPIRACY


“Where is your vessel, Mr. Fobbington?” asked Louis, after the party
had alighted from the carriage at the wharf, at which there was not a
single craft of any kind.

“There she is,” replied the owner of the Oxford, pointing at a
schooner, painted white, at a considerable distance from the shore,
with her foresail and mainsail flapping and banging in the fresh breeze.

A boat with two oarsmen was waiting at the wharf for the party, and
the Parkites embarked immediately. The Oxford was anchored at a short
stay in the middle of a landlocked bay, and the water was smooth, so
that the lady was not affected by the motion. The visitors went up the
accommodation steps to the deck of the vessel. She presented a neat
appearance, though there was nothing gaudy or stylish about her, and
Louis and Captain Ringgold proceeded to examine her.

When the boat was hoisted up at the stern-davits, the two sailors went
forward, and began to trip the anchor. Without any orders from the
owner and captain they then hoisted the jib. Before the party were
fully aware what was going on, the schooner was under way, and standing
out of the bay.

“What are you about, Mr. Fobbington?” demanded Louis, rushing up to the
British millionaire at the wheel.

“Oh, it’s all right; I wanted you and your friends to see the vessel
under way, for you want to know whether she can sail or not,” replied
Mr. Fobbington, with what seemed to Louis to be a mocking laugh.

“Why, yes, Louis; we want to see her sail,” interposed Captain
Ringgold. “I should like to know how she works before I give my opinion
of her, though perhaps I had better go into the hold and look at her
timbers before we get into rough water.”

“I am afraid my mother will be sea-sick,” suggested Louis.

Fobbington had laid a course which would carry the schooner
close-hauled out of the bay, and he called the two sailors, directing
them to show the party into the hold. Captain Ringgold and Felix went
with them, but just as they had gone down, Mrs. Belgrave called her
son. She said she began to feel sick, and she wanted to return to the
shore, for the sea outside looked rough and uninviting to her. Before
he could join his companions below, the Oxford was passing out of the
bay, and the lady was sick in earnest.

Louis conducted her to the cabin. As he reached the foot of the
companion-way, he discovered, seated at the table in the middle of the
apartment, John Scoble!

The truth flashed upon him instantly that he was the victim of a
conspiracy. Frinks Fobbington was a creature of Scoble, and had lured
him on board of the vessel.

By this time Mrs. Belgrave was too sick to notice anything; and with
her face partially covered with her handkerchief, she had failed to
see the only man in the world into whose presence she dreaded to come.
Louis saw a stateroom with an open door, into which he conducted his
mother, tenderly supporting her on his arm. He assisted her into a
berth, and prepared everything in front of it for her use. Then she
begged him to leave her by herself, and she should soon be better, for
she was never sea-sick more than a few hours.

Louis went out into the cabin, closing the door behind him. Scoble was
no longer there, and had evidently determined to keep out of sight for
a time. There was another stateroom in the cabin; but the door was
open, and Scoble was not in it. He looked all about this part of the
vessel without being able to find him. Near the companion-way was the
pantry, the door of which was open. He looked in and saw a door in the
bulkhead, through which he concluded the real captain of the schooner
had retired, and he did not care to search for him. He was likely to
show himself soon enough.

Louis Belgrave did not feel at all like a young millionaire when he
found himself in the cabin of the vessel he had proposed to purchase,
with his repudiated stepfather in command of her. The sight of his
tyrant, as he had come to regard him when they lived together in the
old house, was a terrible shock to him. He was disgusted in realizing
that he had fallen into a trap, and, what was a hundred times worse,
that he had dragged his mother into one.

The young man did not apprehend on the part of Scoble any violence to
his guardian-mother, as he sometimes called her, and always regarded
her. Though he had practically been her guardian in saving her from the
conspiracy of her husband, she was not only his legal guardian, but
she had been his guardian angel from his birth to the present moment.
Whatever he was morally, intellectually, and spiritually, he owed to
her; and no human being, not even Blanche Woolridge, could come between
her and himself.

As his mother was in no peril, and wished to be alone, Louis went on
deck. The accomplished Mr. Fobbington was still at the wheel, and the
two sailors were on the forecastle. The cook appeared to be getting
dinner in his galley. He walked the whole length of the vessel, looked
into the hold or between-decks, as the space seemed to be to him; but
he could find nothing of Captain Ringgold and Felix. They had strangely
disappeared.

The stylish owner of the Oxford had changed his garments, laying aside
his nobby suit of black for one of blue, daubed with grease, tar, and
dirt. Louis was able to understand by this time why the hands of the
elegant gentleman he had met at the hotel were so little in keeping
with his fastidious appearance in every other respect.

Fobbington’s face was still that of the gentleman who spoke French so
fluently; but that was all there was left of him outwardly. He looked
as good-natured as when Louis met him on the piazza, and he approached
him, hoping to ascertain what had become of his two companions.

“_Eh bien?_” (well) “Monsieur Fobbington?” said he, approaching the
betrothed of the daughter of Sir William Lambold, baronet.

“_Eh bien_,” replied the wheelman. “But, my dear little bantam, you
need not trouble yourself to call me Fobbington any longer, for the
name is rather too long for every-day use. My name is simply Wilson
Frinks, and Fobbington is only a swell name; but there is not the
slightest need of using it here.”

“Then you change your name as you do your costume,” replied Louis, who
thought the fellow, whatever he was, had coolness and impudence enough
to fit out any scoundrel for such an enterprise as he was likely to
undertake.

“Well, it takes a little time to change my dress; but I can change
my name in the twinkling of an eye,” replied Frinks, as pleasantly
as though they were still on the piazza of the hotel. “If you have a
pencil and paper in your pocket, you might amuse yourself by figuring
up how much time you could save in a month’s voyage by saying Frinks
instead of Fobbington, for it takes just three times as long to utter
the latter as the former.”

“No doubt that would be a very interesting calculation; but I am not in
the mood just now to cipher it out,” answered Louis, looking about him
to obtain more information in regard to the situation.

“I hope you are quite contented and happy on board of the Oxford,”
added Frinks with a smiling face, which appeared to represent his
satisfaction at the success of the scheme he had brought to a
termination.

“Perfectly happy, my dear fellow; in fact, I am in a state of ecstasy.”

“I am very glad to hear you say so. I took you for a magnificent
fellow, and I did not believe you would groan or sulk under any
possible change of circumstances. I am always happy, and I am
especially so at the present time.”

“You have good reason to be happy, for I suppose you are on the way to
meet Miss Ethel Lambold,” suggested Louis, with something like a smile,
though it was a very sickly one.

“Well, hardly, my dear Louis,” he replied, chuckling again as though
he was still enjoying his victory over the young millionaire. “Do you
know, my beloved friend, that I am a man who despises a liar?”

“Indeed! Then of what an amount of self-condemnation you must be
capable!” exclaimed Louis, looking sharply at the wheelman. “Why, if
his satanic majesty should come on board of the Oxford to look for a
liar, I should not know where to hide you.”

“Because you are not well enough acquainted with the cabin, hold, and
steerage of this vessel,” replied Frinks, laughing at his companion’s
remark. “But if you put me out of sight, he would be sure to take you;
and perhaps he would if he saw me.”

“No, sir; I think he would agree with me that you are the champion liar
of this mundane sphere; and he would want you for another, where you
would feel more at home in spite of the heat.”

“I was about to say that I despised a liar.”

“You did say that; and the royal father of lies would have decided to
take you as the person he wanted.”

“I am not tempted to reply to that charge, for what I said was strictly
true. I did not finish what I had to say before you picked me up. In
the line of his duty a man must sometimes tell falsehoods; and what
I intended to say was that a man or boy who tells an unnecessary lie
was to be despised; and it must be left to a person’s own conscience
to determine whether his lies are necessary or not. The general of an
army”--

“I beg to suggest that you are not the general of an army,” interposed
Louis, still looking about him to increase his knowledge of the
situation, and feeling very little interest in the conversation.

“Excuse me, but I am a general, at least in a figurative sense,”
replied Frinks quickly. “My commander-in-chief sent me on shore to
visit Von Blonk Park, and procure the attendance on board of this
vessel of Mr. Louis Belgrave and his most respectable mother; and I beg
to submit that I have done so. In carrying out my instructions I was
under the necessity of uttering what would certainly have been regarded
as falsehoods under other circumstances, to say nothing of having to
overhear conversations at the fat man’s house and elsewhere.”

“I think I will not dispute this point any longer,” added the young
man, weary of the conversation.

“Knowing you to be a reasonable young man, I was sure I could convince
you that I was right,” answered Frinks, with the air of a victor.

“I will leave the matter to the decision of his satanic majesty when
he comes for you; and I am sure he has no more faithful subject than
yourself.”

“You alluded to Miss Lambold: I am sorry to be obliged to admit, for my
own sake, that the lady is an unmitigated myth; and so is her excellent
papa, Sir William Lambold; I shall not have the pleasure of presenting
you to either of them. I am sorry I cannot; but truth is mighty and
must prevail.”

“I have no doubt it will prevail; and I shall be sorry to see what
becomes of you when that time comes.”

“Don’t distress yourself in the least on my account, my dear Louis.
When you understand my character better you will appreciate it more
highly.”

“If I don’t get ahead any faster than I have so far, I am afraid I
shall have a very mean opinion of you,” replied Louis, trying to keep
up with the raillery of his companion.

“Don’t forestall your judgment. In time you will love me as a model of
integrity and truthfulness.”

“Speed the time when the serpent shall become a new creature. But will
you kindly answer a few questions?” continued Louis, who was still
burning to know what had become of Captain Ringgold and Felix, without
whom he felt that he could do nothing to redeem the situation.




CHAPTER VI

A DISAGREEABLE REVELATION


“Certainly, my dear fellow, I will answer your questions if I can do so
with propriety,” said Mr. Fobbington in reply to Louis.

“Was there any truth in those yarns you reeled off to me on the piazza
of the hotel? Probably you could tell me the truths in your story
quicker than you could the falsehoods.”

“You are quite right so far as time is concerned, though I did tell you
some truth; but the proportion to the lies was ridiculously small,”
answered the helmsman with a laugh. “I am a graduate of one of the
colleges of Oxford; I spent a year in Paris; I had a fortune of about
one-twentieth of the sum I mentioned, but I spent it all in ‘riotous
living,’ as the Scripture has it; I never had the least difficulty in
spending my income, and should not have had if it had been ten times as
great.”

“I am much obliged to you for this frank statement. Perhaps you will
allow me to ask a few more questions on other subjects,” continued
Louis, who was becoming somewhat accustomed to the situation, and was
considering how he should get out of the scrape into which he had so
easily tumbled.

“I will permit you to ask any questions you please.”

“Where are my friends who went below?” asked Louis very anxiously.

“I did not expect you would bring a crowd with you when you accepted
my friendly invitation, and your two masculine friends are in the way.
In fact, their presence on board was really embarrassing; and when
they went below to examine the timbers of the vessel, I was under the
painful necessity of confining them in the hold by putting on the lower
hatch,” returned the wheelman.

Louis realized that he was actually alone for the present. If Uncle
Moses had been on board he would have seen that his _protégé_ had an
excellent opportunity to practise his calling as a knight-errant; for
even in the days of chivalry these worthies had to use their skill,
ingenuity, and prowess in getting out of scrapes, as well as in
plunging into them. But “Sir Louis” could have conclusively proved that
he had not sought this adventure. If he achieved any greatness in the
conduct of the affair, it would be “greatness thrust upon him.”

If his mother had not been on board at this moment sick in the cabin,
without a suspicion that she was in the power of her villanous husband,
he would have felt differently, and might have been in the mood for
an adventure. The particular Fate that arranges adventures does not
always adapt them to the pleasure and convenience of the hero; and it
was a gross error in this instance to put Mrs. Belgrave on board of the
vessel. It might have been fun to the knight without her; but it was
positive misery to have her in the trap with him.

“Then Captain Ringgold and Felix have not been drowned, had their
throats cut, or their brains knocked out?” said Louis, when the
disappearance of his friends had been explained.

“That is cruel, my dear Louis, and you shock me. I shall not love you
if you talk like that,” replied Frinks, with an intensely deprecatory
expression on his face. “We are men of brains, but not of blood. Do not
do me the injustice to suppose I would engage in any affair that called
for the shedding of blood, or the shedding of brains, for that matter.
We simply make your friends comfortable in another part of the vessel;
for their presence on deck might lead you to commit some act that would
create unpleasantness on board.”

“Precisely so; and I cannot help seeing how kind and considerate
you are with me,” added Louis, bestowing a sarcastic look upon his
excellent friend. “May I venture to ask where this vessel is bound?”

“She is bound to England, though I cannot now inform you just what port
she will make, for that will depend upon circumstances.”

“What circumstances?”

“The principal one is the pleasure of the captain.”

“In other words, your own pleasure.”

“Bless you, no, my dear Louis! I am not the captain,” protested the
wheelman, shaking his head.

“May I ask who is the captain?”

“Captain Wade Farrongate,” replied Frinks without hesitation. “Of
course you are aware that he is the husband of the lady in the cabin. I
assure you, Louis, I am telling you the strict truth; for it would be
useless to lie about a matter you understand better than I do.”

“Fobbington and Farrongate are horses of the same color, and both of
them are myths,” said Louis with a palpable sneer.

“Perhaps you can tell me who is the captain of this frisky schooner.”

“I can; one John Scoble is the captain of her.”

“I don’t know him.”

“If you don’t know your commander, I can introduce you to him so far
as his character is concerned, for I know him well. John Scoble was
a deserter from the British army, and he is a robber, a swindler, an
embezzler. There are warrants out for his arrest in New York and New
Jersey at the present moment,” said Louis with a good deal of vim.

“That’s an excellent character you give him,” replied Frinks, shrugging
his shoulders.

“My mother and my two friends in the hold would tell you the same
story, if you wish to examine them.”

“It’s none of my affair, and I shall not trouble myself to look into
the matter. I only obey orders, and it makes no difference to me what
the captain’s name is.”

“I am not to believe that this schooner is the Oxford, I suppose?”
continued the victim.

“Not unless you insist upon it. I took care not to let you see the name
on her stern,” replied Frinks.

“She is the Maud, I have no doubt.”

“You are a Yankee, and you guessed right the first time.”

“I have been on board of her before. She has been painted white since I
saw her.”

“Three coats,” laughed the wheelman.

“If John Scoble is the captain, what are you, devoted lover of the
truth?”

“I am the mate.”

“If you are bound to England, do you intend to take my two male friends
with you, Mr. Frinks?” asked Louis, who had learned to “mister” the
mate on board of the Blanche.

“I must refer you to the captain for an answer to that question, my
dear Louis, for I don’t know what will be done with them. We did not
expect them, and did not provide for their accommodation beforehand.”

“I am very much obliged to you for the information you have given
me, Mr. Frinks. So far as I can see, what you have told me gives me
no advantage if I should desire to make any change in the present
situation,” said Louis as he moved away from the wheel.

“If I had supposed it would, I should not have given it you; for I am
employed by Captain Farrongate, and it is my duty to be loyal to him,”
returned the mate. “But, my little lark, must I remind you that you are
on the broad Atlantic, where you can’t swim ashore? You are caught in
the captain’s fly-trap, and you can’t do a thing to help yourself. As
your true and faithful friend, I advise you not to attempt to squeeze
milk out of a paving-stone, for it can’t be done.”

“Certainly it cannot; but the exercise might strengthen the muscles of
the hand and arm,” replied the victim as he moved forward.

He looked in at the galley as he passed it, rather to measure the size
of the cook than to observe his culinary operations. He was not of
large stature, and did not look at all formidable, for his expression
was mild and meeching. The victim continued his walk forward, where he
found the two seamen seated on the forecastle. They were men of medium
size, who might be serviceable in an affray, but Louis did not regard
them as invincible.

Like a good general, the victim had carefully estimated the force
on the other side, and he went to the open hatch to consider the
approaches to the prison of his friends. The wind was north-north-east,
and the Maud was beating out of the lower bay of New York. As the
schooner tacked, all hands on deck were occupied, and Louis found his
opportunity to look at the lower hatch, as the mate called it. The main
hatch opened into the between-decks, not often found in small crafts.
Directly under it was another, with the hatches on, secured by a broad
iron bar, bent to fit the curve. Beneath this closed hatch, if the mate
had told him the truth, Captain Ringgold and Felix were imprisoned.

Louis examined the iron bar with interest, and discovered that it was
held in place by a large padlock. Of course it was locked, and the
key was probably in the mate’s pocket. If he attempted to release the
prisoners, it would take a long time to break the lock, and Frinks
would sound the alarm if he should jump down the hatch. He would have
at least three men upon him in an instant, and it was not prudent to
undertake any movement in this direction.

If the victim had examined the between-decks, he would have found that
it was fitted up for second-class passengers, with rude berths on the
sides. He wondered if there was any means of getting from the cabin to
the steerage, as the place was called, or sometimes the fore cabin. He
remembered the door he had seen opening from the pantry, and he had a
hope that he might effect an entrance by it.

The motion of the schooner was very uneasy, and the wind seemed to be
increasing to a gale. The Maud was carrying all her principal sails,
and she was making rough weather of it. The sea broke over her at
times, and it must soon be necessary to close the main hatch. But it
was time for Louis to inquire into the condition of his mother, and he
descended the companion-way to the cabin. He looked about him as he
entered, but he saw nothing of Scoble, though he was confident he was
close at hand. He entered the stateroom, and found his mother in just
the position he had left her.

The son wondered if Scoble had been near her; but he could not answer
the question. He bent over the sick lady and listened to her breathing.
It was very seldom that she was ill, and at these times her son was her
only nurse, so that he was not altogether unskilled in the duties of
the sickroom.

“Are we going back to the shore, Louis?” she asked, when she was
conscious of his presence.

“How do you feel, mother?” inquired he, without answering her question.
“I hope you are better.”

“I am a great deal better, my boy; and I should get up if I were not
afraid it would make me worse,” replied Mrs. Belgrave, raising her
head. “Are we going back to Southfield now?”

This was a hard question to answer. He could not tell her a falsehood,
and it would be useless to do so if he could, for she would soon find
out for herself the painful truth. It was worse than folly to lie to
her; he must tell her the actual situation, and he might just as well
do it then as a few hours later. The Maud was bound for England; and
Scoble had no doubt bought the vessel for the sole purpose of taking
her and her son there.

“You don’t answer me, Louis. Why are you silent?” she asked, fixing an
anxious gaze upon him when he hesitated.

“We are not returning to Southfield, mother, I am sorry to say,”
replied he, seating himself by her berth, and taking her hand.
“You must be very strong and brave, mother, for my news is very
disagreeable.”

“What is it, Louis?” she demanded with a gasp.

“This vessel is the Maud; John Scoble is in command of her, and we are
bound to England.”

The poor woman covered her face with her hands and said not a word.




CHAPTER VII

THE CONFERENCE IN THE STATEROOM


Louis felt that he had done no more than his duty in telling his mother
that they were in the power and at the mercy of the enemy; and he
regarded John Scoble as an enemy in the worst sense of the word. He was
not disposed to give way to despondency, though the prospect before him
and his mother was anything but assuring. His two male friends were
prisoners in the hold, and until he could deliver them he could hardly
hope to accomplish anything for the party, of which the circumstances
appeared to have made him the leader.

Scoble did not yet show himself; for he seemed to be satisfied that he
had won a complete victory in the capture of his wife and her son, and
was willing to let them recover from their astonishment before he took
a second step. What the next step would be was a trying question to
Louis, and he wished to make himself ready, if he could, to meet it. He
could hardly believe that the conspirator would take Captain Ringgold
and Felix to England with him; and he was anxious to free them before
any other disposition was made of them, for he needed their aid.

Louis was not afraid of Scoble; all he really feared was that his
mother might grow weak in the battle with the enemy. He felt that he
must strengthen her, and if possible increase her power of resistance
to the insidious magnetism of her former husband. There could be no
better time than while she lay in her berth recovering from the effect
of her sea-sickness, and he might not have another opportunity to
converse with her. He might be defeated in any enterprise in which he
engaged, and then be a prisoner in the hold with his friends from the
Park.

“I suppose I am to blame for this misfortune, mother,” said Louis, as
he bent over her, and spoke in a low tone, fearful that Scoble might be
within hearing distance of them.

“I do not think you are to blame, my son, for you could not possibly
have known that this Fobbington was an agent of Scoble,” replied the
poor woman, removing her hands from her face and trying to smile upon
her boy to assure him she did not blame him.

“Of course I did not intend to get you into this trouble, and I had no
possible reason for supposing that Frinks, for this is his real name,
was in the service of Scoble. He heard me talking to the professor, and
spoke to me. I had not heard from the jockey for so long that I had
almost forgotten he ever existed. Besides, Frinks is a scholar, and I
took him for a gentleman, as his manners indicated that he was.”

“I do not blame you in the least degree, my dear boy,” she added,
taking his hand and tenderly pressing it. “We must all have our light
afflictions in this world, and this is one of ours; and I trust the
Lord will give us strength to bear up under whatever trials are before
us.”

“That’s it precisely, dear mother,” said Louis, encouraged by the view
of the situation she appeared to be taking. “You must be as firm as the
immovable rocks on which the mountain rests, with no change or shadow
of turning. It is for your salvation in this world and the next, as
well as mine, that you are to battle, and any shrinking may be the ruin
of us both. For my sake, as well as for your own, do not yield a hair
to this villain, however softly and smoothly he may address you.”

“I will not, Louis!” she exclaimed in a louder voice than it was
prudent to speak.

In the face of danger he had never seen her so strong and determined,
and he felt more hopeful of the situation. It was not the annoyance,
not the suffering, that might be in store for them, which troubled
the young millionaire; it was the fear that his hitherto nervous and
timid parent would yield to the fascinations of Scoble, and renew her
matrimonial relations with him.

If his mother would only be firm and resolute in her purpose never
again to join her existence to that of the man who had kidnapped them,
Louis cared little for anything else. He could defend himself and her
from violence if any were attempted; and he was better prepared for
such an event than his mother suspected; and certainly his enemies were
equally ignorant of his resources in this direction.

Mrs. Belgrave was recovering from her sickness, though it was still
prudent for her to remain in her berth; and Louis found her in a
vastly better condition, morally and mentally, than he had dared to
hope for. He had more to say to her; but he was afraid Scoble might be
listening to the conversation, and he went out into the cabin to survey
his surroundings. When he felt sure of his mother’s strength of mind in
her trying situation, he would be ready to do something for the release
of his companions.

He looked about the cabin, and examined every one of the dozen berths
it contained, and went into the other stateroom; but Scoble was nowhere
to be seen. As he was not near his mother he did not care to look for
him any farther. He returned to his mother’s room. Though the motion of
the vessel became more and more uneasy, the sick lady had ceased to be
affected by it.

Louis had been out in the Blanche enough to learn something about the
moods of the ocean, and had once been caught in a smart gale; and it
seemed to him that the Maud was running into a storm. He had never been
sea-sick himself, and he believed he should not be affected in that
way, whatever the weather.

“I am afraid we are going to have bad weather, mother; for the vessel
pitches and rolls more and more every minute,” said Louis, as he seated
himself at the side of her berth.

“I don’t think I shall be sick any more; after I once get better, I
don’t have any more trouble,” she replied; and Louis was astonished to
see how self-possessed and even cheerful she was.

There are many women who are timid and nervous under ordinary
circumstances, and given to borrowing trouble, who become firm,
patient, and self-commanding in the presence of great trials, who are
resolute in the face of danger and in the midst of affliction; and Mrs.
Belgrave was demonstrating that she was one of them.

“I hope you will get over it now, for I am afraid you will have other
and more serious trials to encounter,” added her son. “I am going to be
frank and candid with you, my dear mother, in this terrible trial.”

“I hope you are always so, my son.”

“No, mother, I have not always been so; for you are nervous and timid,
and I have tried to save you from all mental suffering. I have not
told you that I met Scoble face to face nearly a month ago, and that I
struck him down with a club, so that he fell senseless at my feet.”

“You meant kindly to me, Louis; but I am not sure that you did the best
thing in concealing the truth from me,” she replied.

“Mr. Woolridge and Uncle Moses thought I did; but we will not talk
about that now. It was the first time we went out in the Blanche. I
will tell you the whole story now,” said Louis; and he proceeded to do
so.

“But is this the same vessel?” asked Mrs. Belgrave. “It does not look
like her; that one was black.”

“Her captain and owner has evidently taken her to some small place
to the southward, and painted her white; but it is the same vessel.
Now, mother, the only thing of which I have any decided dread in this
adventure is that you will permit Scoble to influence you to the extent
of restoring former relations between you. That would be the worst
calamity that could happen to both of us.”

“You need not have the slightest fear of me, Louis,” replied Mrs.
Belgrave very earnestly. “I know I have been weak and faltering, and I
have given you reason to distrust my firmness; but Heaven will give me
strength this time to be true to you and to myself;” and she drew him
towards her and kissed him on his brow.

“I am satisfied, mother; and as long as you continue resolute in your
present purpose, I shall not care what happens to me.”

“But I shall care what happens to you, my son,” she interposed. “I hope
you will not rashly undertake any wild scheme; I trust you will not try
to be a knight-errant.”

“We are in a bad scrape, and you surely do not expect me to fold my
arms and do nothing, do you, mother?” demanded Louis, with something
like indignation in his tones, as nearly like it as it could be in
speaking to his mother.

“What can you do, Louis?”

“For one thing I can make an attempt to release Captain Ringgold and
Felix from their dungeon in the hold of the schooner. They are my
friends, and they are having the worst of it.”

“Perhaps Scoble will release them if you ask him to do so.”

“I shall not ask him. I know better than to do that,” replied Louis
decidedly, as he heard a tremendous racket in the cabin, with a voice
speaking in a loud tone.

Louis hastened out into the cabin to ascertain the cause of the
disturbance. The first person he saw was Frinks, who was standing near
the pantry door, pounding with his fist upon the panels near him.

“It is blowing half a gale, and it looks as though we were going to
have a tough north-easter,” shouted he in a loud tone, as Louis stopped
at the stateroom door.

“Did you speak to me, Mr. Frinks? If you did, I beg to suggest that I
am not deaf,” said the passenger when he saw the mate.

“No; I did not speak to you, for you are nothing but a landlubber,”
replied the mate, who did not seem to be in as good humor as when he
was on deck. “Where is the captain? He is the man I want to see just
now, before the blow takes the masts out of the vessel. Where is he?”

“I have no idea where he is, and I can’t say that I care. I saw him
when I first came into the cabin, but not since.”

The mate cared more about the matter, and, crossing to the pantry, he
pounded on the door of it loud enough to wake the dead, if any had been
within hearing distance.

“Below there! Captain Scoble!” yelled the mate at the top of his lungs.

“In the cabin!” replied a voice, which Louis recognized as that of
Captain Scoble; and it appeared to come from the bowels of the vessel,
forward of the cabin. “What’s the row now?”

“Row enough!” replied Frinks, entering the pantry, and trying the door
leading to the steerage, which was fastened. “You had better show
yourself on deck, Captain Scoble, if you don’t want the masts taken out
of the schooner.”

The mate stepped back, and the captain emerged from the door inside the
pantry. He followed Frinks out into the cabin, and looked as though he
was in no better humor than the second in command.

“I ordered you not to come into the cabin till I told you to do so,”
said the captain, who had the expression on his face with which Louis
was most familiar, for he was angry with the mate.

“But you did not order me to take in sail if it came on to blow a
hurricane,” answered Frinks, as smartly as his superior had spoken.

“I thought you had sense enough to do that without any orders,” growled
Scoble.

“It can’t be done now without all hands, including the captain and
cook,” added Frinks.

“I have business below, and I can’t go on deck at present,” said Scoble.

“You will have business below in Davy Jones’s locker if you don’t
attend to the working of the vessel.”

“No more jaw! Go on deck and take in the foresail!” continued the
captain beginning to be furious.

“That will not prevent the mainmast from being taken out of her, for
you know both sticks are half rotten,” returned the mate.

Mr. Frinks evidently believed he was quite as good a man as Scoble.




CHAPTER VIII

BOUND TO ENGLAND


At this stage of the discussion, Louis happened to step out of the
stateroom to which he had retired on the appearance of Scoble, for
he did not wish to provoke a quarrel with him at present. But if
the vessel was in danger, as the mate intimated, he wanted to know
something more of the situation. It would have been better, so far as
preserving the peace was concerned, if he had kept out of sight.

“Go on deck, Mr. Frinks, and put a reef in the mainsail!” stormed the
captain; and his wrath seemed to be freshly rekindled at the sight of
Louis.

“It can’t be done without more hands. If you don’t care what becomes of
your schooner, I am sure I don’t,” replied Frinks, who did not seem to
be a model sailor, for he had not learned the duty of passive obedience.

“Here is a stout boy; take him on deck with you!” said Scoble,
concentrating a look of hatred upon Louis. “He shall work his passage.
Take him on deck with you! He’s of no use below.”

“He is a lubber, and good for nothing,” answered the mate, glancing at
the victim. “I expect every minute to hear the mast snap off; but I
shall wait till you get ready to go on deck, Captain Scoble.”

“What do you mean by calling me Captain Scoble?” demanded the
commander; and it was clear that Frinks had forgotten his instructions
in the excitement, and that Scoble had not noticed it till he realized
that Louis was present to hear the name.

“I stand corrected, though Farrongate is not your name, all the same,”
added the mate in sulky tones.

“We will not quarrel, Mr. Frinks,” said the captain, doubtless seeing
that he was tipping his own fat into the fire. “I will go on deck with
you, and we will reef both the fore and the mainsails.”

“All right, Captain Farrongate,” added Frinks, who had carried his
point, and went on deck.

“Come, Louis, you must do your share of the work in handling the
vessel, and I shall soon make a sailor of you,” said Captain Scoble, in
a more pliable tone than he had used to him before.

“No, I thank you, Captain Scoble; I prefer not to be a sailor on board
of this schooner,” replied Louis firmly, but in a gentle tone.

“At your old tricks, are you?” demanded the captain, scowling
maliciously at the passenger.

“I must decline to do anything to assist you and your crew in carrying
off my mother,” answered the brave young man.

“I don’t intend to argue the point with you any more than with the
mate,” said Scoble, who had been beaten in the discussion with Frinks.

“I have no desire to argue the point, and shall not insist upon doing
so,” replied Louis, moving away from the stateroom door, for he was
afraid his mother would be disturbed.

“I am the master of the vessel, and all on board of her obey my
orders,” retorted Scoble, following the boy farther aft, as though he
intended to enforce his command.

“I have nothing to say,” added the passenger, not desiring to irritate
his tyrant if he could avoid doing so, though that was an almost
hopeless task.

“I have something to say, you young rascal!”

“Say it if you wish; I do not object.”

“I ordered you to go on deck.”

“I am aware that you did; but I did not go.”

“For cool impudence, you beat all the boys I ever knew!” exclaimed
Scoble, who seemed to be a little bewildered for the moment.

“Do you think my impudence will compare with yours? You ask me to
assist in carrying off my own mother,” added Louis, as quietly as
though he had been in the squire’s parlor.

At that moment the Maud gave a lee lurch, and the passenger could hear
the water pouring in over the bulwarks. Captain Scoble did not stay
to bandy any more compliments with his opponent, but rushed on deck,
though even Louis did not apprehend any serious danger. Mrs. Belgrave
was not alarmed; and her son went part way up the steps to see what was
the matter. The sea looked more angry than when he had last seen it;
but he had been out in a rougher time on board the Blanche.

“Put on the hatches, Stowin!” shouted the captain as soon as he reached
the deck and saw that the water was pouring down the hatchway into the
steerage. “Why didn’t you have the hatches put on before this time,
Mr. Frinks?”

Louis did not hear the reply, if there was any, but retreated to the
cabin. His mother was not disturbed by any fears, and he answered all
her questions.

“It was a lucky sea that made them close the hatches, mother; and now I
am going to see if I can find Captain Ringgold and Felix,” said Louis,
anxious to do something for their release.

“Be very careful, my son, won’t you?” pleaded Mrs. Belgrave.

“Certainly, I will; I am always careful.”

“Don’t provoke Scoble if you can possibly avoid it.”

“I have tried not to irritate him, though my blood is boiling every
time I set eyes on him. But I have been firm and decided; for he is one
of those men who would be ten times worse than they are if you did not
keep a stiff upper lip and give them as good as they send. Now keep
quiet, mother, and don’t be alarmed at anything,” said Louis, as he
left the room and closed the door behind him.

The Maud had been fitted up as a passenger vessel, and her cabin was
spacious enough to accommodate at least twenty persons. There was
nothing new to be learned in this part of the schooner, and Louis went
into the pantry from which Scoble had come out when the mate made the
disturbance in the cabin.

In the pantry he discovered a couple of lanterns hanging on a beam
overhead. He took down one of them and lighted it with a match from the
tin safe. He expected to explore some dark places in his search for
his friends, and he was prepared for the emergency. He thought it must
be dark between-decks since the hatches had been put on.

[Illustration: “AT THE SAME MOMENT CAPTAIN RINGGOLD APPEARED AT THE
OPENING WITH FELIX.” Page 62.]

He opened the door leading forwards, for the captain had not locked it
when he came out, and stepped into a passageway, which was as dark as
Egypt ahead of him. He closed the door through which he had passed, and
finding the key in the lock, he turned it. By the light of his lantern
he found a door on his left, which he opened. Then he found himself in
what he took to be the second cabin. There was a skylight in the deck
overhead, and he left his lantern in the passage. The apartment was
full of tobacco smoke, and he readily concluded that this was where the
captain had passed his time before he came into the cabin. He remained
there but a few minutes.

Proceeding towards the forward part of the vessel, he found that his
light was a necessity, and it soon enabled him to make out the lower
hatchway, which he had seen before from the main deck. His first
inquiry was into the strength of the padlock that held the hatch-bar in
place. It was large and heavy, and the task of breaking it looked like
a formidable job.

He had no tools of any kind; but there was a stove in the second cabin,
and he had seen a heavy poker lying by the side of it. It was but the
work of a moment to procure this implement. He thrust the small end of
it under the hasp, and then applied all his strength to it. Salt water
is not good for iron ware, and the fixtures were rusty. A few vigorous
twists with the poker drew out the staple that held the hasp, and the
lock was removed. The operator made short work with the iron bar; and
in less time than it takes to tell about it, he had removed one of the
hatches.

At the same moment Captain Ringgold appeared at the opening with Felix,
for they had heard the noise made in getting to them. Louis could
hear a heavy pounding and rattling on deck, with the voice of Scoble
rising above it, and he concluded that the captain was attending to the
reefing himself of the mainsail. He was therefore so far aft that he
was not likely to hear anything at the main hatch.

“Arrah, Louis, me darlint, is it you?” asked Felix. “What are ye givin’
us?”

“I’m giving you your liberty,” replied Louis in a low tone. “Don’t
speak out too loud.”

“It’s a good thing ye’re givin’ us. I had nearly broke me bachk in
thinkin’ they moight have kilt ye, me darlint.”

“Not yet, Flix; and I shall not be the first one to drop, if it comes
to that,” replied Louis cheerfully. “I hope you have not suffered much,
Captain Ringgold.”

“Suffered? Oh, no, I have not suffered at all; for I found a pile of
old bagging, or something of that sort, and I have been asleep most of
the time for the want of something better to do,” replied the retired
shipmaster in a pleasant voice, evidently taking his cue from his
companions. “But I should very much like to know what all this means.”

“I think you had better come out of the hold before we have any more
talk,” answered Louis, as he extended his hand to assist the captain.

“Thank you; I don’t need any assistance,” added the shipmaster, as he
mounted to the lower deck by the aid of the notched stanchion which
supported the forward deck-beam, Felix following him in the same manner.

“Now come with me, and we shall soon be in a place of safety,” said
Louis, as he led his friends aft, feeling that their captivity could
not last much longer.

“Faix, the darkness is broighter than the loight down here,” said
Felix, as they groped their way through the gloomy passage; for their
leader had put out the lantern, fearful that it might be seen through
the skylight in the steerage.

“You shall have more light in a minute; and don’t let the darkness
dazzle your eyes, Felix,” added Louis.

The conductor soon reached the door of the second cabin, which he had
decided to make the headquarters of the party for the present. He
threw it wide open, and the light from the apartment pervaded the dark
gangway. Leading the way into the steerage, he closed the door as soon
as his companions had both entered.

“I think we shall be comfortable here for a while,” said Louis, as he
seated himself on one of the benches under the berths that surrounded
the apartment. “Sit down, Captain Ringgold, and make yourself at home
if you can.”

“Faix, a man that was raised in a bog couldn’t ask for onything better
nor this,” added Felix, as he took a seat by the side of Louis, while
the captain was on the other side of him.

“It seems to be getting a little rough out from the shore,” said
Captain Ringgold, as the Maud made a heavy roll. “If I had known that
you intended to take a sail in this craft, I should have told you that
it looked as though a north-easter was coming up.”

“I had no intention of taking a sail, captain; and I have to confess
that I have been made the victim of a trick,” added Louis.

“But how much of a trip do your friends intend to make of it?”

“My enemies on deck would express it better; and the word is especially
applicable to the captain.”

“Who is the captain of the Oxford?”

“The schooner is not the Oxford, but the Maud; and her captain is John
Scoble, whom you will better recognize by his assumed name of Wade
Farrongate,” Louis explained.

“Farrongate!” exclaimed Captain Ringgold. “Then I begin to get an idea
why Felix and myself were shut up under the hatches.”

“This was a trick to get my mother and myself on board of the Maud.
Fobbington is a fraud; and we are bound to England.”

This was startling information to Captain Ringgold and Felix.




CHAPTER IX

A DINNER IN THE SECOND CABIN


“Bound to England, is it?” exclaimed Felix, jumping up from the bench
on which he was seated. “And will we shtop in swate Ireland on the way?
That would give me a chance to foind where me grand-dad is buried in
the province of Munshter, in the county of Watherford, and the parish
of Ballinyfad.”

“I don’t believe we shall stop on the way, Flix; at least not so far
over as Ireland,” added Louis. “I am very sorry, Captain Ringgold, that
I have got you into such a bad scrape.”

“It is no worse for me than for you and your mother. It will stir up
my blood a little; for I was getting so lazy and rusty that I needed
something to wake me up,” replied the captain as cheerfully as though
he had a personal interest in the proceedings of the party. “My first
idea was that, as you are a millionaire, the banditti had captured us
in order to get a big ransom out of you. If I had seen you again I
intended to advise you not to pay them a red copper; and I am one to
help you hang the whole troop at the fore-yard arm.”

“I don’t know what is the fore-yard arrum, but that is what I’d loike
to have you do, me darlint!” exclaimed Felix with enthusiasm.

“Don’t talk so loud, Flix; I don’t care to attract the attention of the
villains before we are ready to receive them,” interposed Louis.

“Whisht, is it?” whispered Felix.

“I am not in the hanging business, and I should rather send Scoble to
Sing-Sing for a term of years than suspend him to the fore-yard arm,”
replied Louis. “There are warrants out for his arrest.”

As Captain Ringgold was likely to become an actor in the drama in
progress, the leader decided to inform him at once in regard to the
history of his mother’s marriage to Scoble, and to the subsequent
events connected with that union.

It did not take him long to relate enough to enable the captain to
understand the present situation fully; and the shipmaster promptly
volunteered to do all in his power to enable the party to get out of
the hole into which they had tumbled. In fact, he was enthusiastic
enough to become a knight-errant himself in the service of the lady in
the cabin; for she was still fair, and popular enough at the Park to
enlist all his sympathies.

“The vessel is easier, and they have doubtless put a reef in the
foresail and mainsail,” said Captain Ringgold, after the history of
the Belgrave family had been fully considered. “I suppose it is about
time to expect a visit from the captain of this craft, and it is rather
important to agree upon the ceremonies with which he is to be received.”

“’Pon me wurrud I don’t believe in any ceremonies at all, at all,”
said Felix, “unless we eshcort him to the fore-yard arrum to the music
of a brickbat in a tin pan, and h’ist him up while we all whistle ‘Pop
goes the weasel!’”

“Be quiet and reasonable, Flix; this is not just the time to make fun,”
added Louis. “I think you will be comfortable here if I leave you for a
time, Captain Ringgold; for my mother is in a stateroom in the cabin,
and I must look out for her.”

“Will I go wid ye’s, Louis, darlint?” asked Felix, rising from the
bench.

“No, you will not go with me, Flix.”

“Perhaps Oi’d betther go wid ye’s,” replied the Milesian, as he put his
hand in his right hip-pocket.

“No; you don’t need that now.”

But Felix drew from the pocket a revolver of medium size, and held it
up before his companions.

“Put it away, Flix!” said Louis sharply. “You have no use for that now,
and you are not to show it except in an emergency, such as I explained
to you.”

“I just wanted to look at the pretty toy,” replied Felix, as he
returned the weapon to his pocket. “It does me hairt good to luk at it,
and it gives me a whole tub full of stringth and confidence in meself.
I advoise ye’s to luk at the one in your pocket, darlint, for it’ll be
loike puttin’ an exthra man inside your coat wid ye’s.”

“I know that I have it, and that is enough for me. If my mother thought
I was likely to shoot a human being, even her worst and only enemy in
the world, I believe she would jump overboard; and I don’t know but I
should do so myself if I thought I should do such a thing,” continued
Louis.

“What call have ye’s to a revolver if ye’s wouldn’t shoot such a
blackguard as Shcoble?”

“Perhaps I would shoot him if my mother’s safety required it.”

“Faix, ye’s have a bone in your bachk, and ye’ll do it.”

Louis left the second cabin and entered the first through the pantry.
He had about him the means of defending himself in case of an
emergency. His arsenal consisted of a revolver in one hip-pocket and a
box of cartridges in the other. But he had no murderous thoughts in his
head or in his heart. His idea of an emergency was that last extremity
when he might have to use the weapon to save his mother’s or his own
life.

He believed that Scoble was a coward at heart, as all villains and
bullies are apt to be; and he expected to use the “pretty toy,” if at
all, as a means of intimidation, rather than for the purpose of killing
or maiming any person, even the great enemy of the Belgraves.

Governed by these reflections, he had purchased two revolvers of
moderate size, but of the best quality the expert keeper of the
shooting gallery could recommend to him. Scoble had already appeared on
the stage, and Louis was likely to be obliged to confront him even when
he was totally unprepared for an encounter with a man trained to arms,
and of large experience in the ways of the world.

As Felix was his constant companion, he had given him one of the
weapons. He informed Uncle Moses what he had done, and added that
both of them were practising with the toys in a gallery in New York.
The worthy lawyer looked serious, and even troubled; but he made no
objection, though he read the boys a long lecture on the danger of
carrying concealed weapons.

Louis was as conservative in his views on this subject as the squire,
and he did his best to elevate the sentiments of Felix to the same high
standard. After what had occurred, it could not be denied that the
young millionaire was in peril at all times while Scoble was known to
be on this side of the Atlantic; and he carried his weapon everywhere
he went, and slept with it within reach of his hand. As a further
precaution both of the boys had taken lessons in fencing and the art
of self-defence, though neither of them took the least interest in
prize-fights, or even amateur boxing.

When he entered the cabin where his mother was, Louis found no one
to dispute his passage. The captain of the Maud was probably on deck
listening to the report of the mate on his operations. The vessel was
going along comparatively easily, though she still had a considerable
pitch and roll, and it was evident that the storm Captain Ringgold had
predicted was coming down upon the Maud. As nearly as Louis could make
it out, the vessel was somewhere to the southward of Long Island, and
not far from the shore.

Mrs. Belgrave declared that she needed nothing; and preferring to be
alone, she begged Louis to leave her: she thought she could sleep;
and he complied with her request. He went back to the second cabin,
and told his companions that nothing could be done at present, as his
mother was still sick. He was sorry to prolong their imprisonment; but
Mrs. Belgrave was not yet in condition to bear the excitement of any
movement.

“Don’t disturb yourself in the least degree, Louis,” replied Captain
Ringgold. “Let this cruise continue for a week or a month. I have
nothing in the world to do at the Park, and I was thinking of taking
a trip to the South, for the sake of something to occupy my mind; but
this excursion will answer my purpose just as well.”

“Me, too!” exclaimed Felix. “The only thing that’s bodthering me is
whether or not we’ll get ony dinner.”

“I was thinking of that myself,” added the captain. “An excursion
without anything to eat is not wholly to my mind.”

“I think I can settle that question very soon,” replied Louis, as he
returned to the pantry, where he had seen a whole boiled ham and other
eatables on the shelf.

He placed the ham on a tray, with bread, butter, pickles, and an apple
pie, and carried it to the second cabin. He put the eatables on the
table, and then arranged them in proper order, bringing knives and
forks from the pantry. Though he had not thought of dinner before, the
sight of the food stimulated his appetite, and he ate a hearty meal
with his companions. With the help of Felix, everything not consumed
was restored to the pantry.

Louis returned to the first cabin, and listened at the door of his
mother’s room. He could hear nothing, and he did not disturb her.
He seated himself and began to consider a plan he had thought of to
redeem his party from their imprisonment. While he was thinking of this
subject, a man came down from the deck and began to set the table for
dinner. He put on the cloth, arranged the dishes, and then brought out
the remains of the ham.

“I wonder who has been cutting into this ’am,” said the man, who was
the cook. “I boiled it this morning, and took it out of the pot since
breakfast, which it was only three hours ago, and no one hadn’t any
occasion to touch it. These dishes are all dirty, which it was me that
washed them all this morning. I don’t understand it at all.”

Louis understood it all, but he said nothing.

“All the pickles is gone that I took out, and more than half the butter
has been gobbled up, as the Yankees say. Have you taken a lunch, sir?”
asked the cook, turning to the involuntary passenger, “or was it the
sick lady that ate up ’alf this ’am?”

“It was not the sick lady,” replied Louis.

“Then maybe it was yourself, sir?” interrogated the puzzled cook, who
appeared to be also the steward.

“I did not eat half the ham; but with my two friends, we helped
ourselves to what we wanted of it,” answered Louis, as coolly as though
he had owned and commanded the vessel. “I am very much obliged to you
for putting it where you did, and here is a five-dollar gold piece to
help you out in white silk handkerchiefs, or any such things as you may
need.”

“Thank you, sir, which it is very ’andsome of you; and if you and your
friends want anything more in my line, which it is cook and steward, I
shall be very pleased to serve you.”

“Thanks, cook and steward,” added the passenger. “Do you happen to know
which is the captain’s stateroom?”

“Of course I know, which it is the room where the lady is,” replied
Bickling; “which it was his name.”

“Is that ham all you have for dinner, cook?” inquired Louis, in order
to change the subject.

“Which it is all I have; but I did not know that all your party were to
lunch off it first. For a gentleman as treats me so ’andsomely, I will
cook a beefsteak, or some ’am and heggs.”

“I have already dined, and I don’t wish for anything more.”

Louis thought he heard his mother moving in her room, and he softly
opened the door. She was sitting up in her berth, and wanted to know if
it were possible to obtain a cup of tea. He assured her she should have
it, and asked the cook for it. He had made his peace with Bickling, who
hastened to the galley to make it. He returned to the room and seated
himself in front of the berth.




CHAPTER X

A SKIRMISH WITH LIGHT WORDS


“This is Captain Scoble’s stateroom, mother,” said Louis, as he seated
himself.

“Then I must move,” she added.

“No, you shall not move, mother; there is another room in the cabin,
and he may sleep there, for I will not permit you to be turned out of
this one,” replied Louis, as he began to make a careful survey of his
surroundings.

“You talk as though you were the captain, my son. Do not quarrel with
Scoble if you can help it,” she pleaded.

“I will not; but I shall not submit, or bow my head to him.”

Louis had not asked for the captain’s room without a purpose, which he
was now carrying out. Under the berth he saw a trunk; he drew it out
and opened it. He found nothing but a thin package of letters which he
cared to possess, and he slid it into his pocket.

“What are you doing, Louis?” asked Mrs. Belgrave, whose attention had
been attracted to his operations.

“Preparing for the future, mother; nothing more. But don’t ask me any
questions. Scoble must soon come down into the cabin, and I wish to be
prepared for him.”

She said nothing more, though she watched him closely till they were
disturbed by a knock at the door. It was Bickling with the tea, which
Louis handed to his mother, and closed the door. While she was drinking
the contents of the cup, her son busied himself in ransacking a case of
drawers in front of the berth. In one of them he found two revolvers of
twice the size of the one he carried, and two boxes of cartridges. He
took possession of these, and closed the drawer from which he had taken
them.

“Do you think it is right for you to look into the drawers of other
people, Louis?” asked Mrs. Belgrave, as she finished drinking her tea.

“Here is what I found in one of them, mother; do you think I had better
put them back?” he replied, showing her the pistols and the ammunition.
“Shall I leave them for Scoble to use when he wants to get nearer
to the missing million? as probably he still regards it; for I am
confident Frinks brought him no report of the finding of it.”

“No; throw them overboard!” exclaimed she, as she sank back in the
berth.

“I will not throw them overboard; but I must leave you.”

The cook had left the cabin; and he carried the revolvers to Captain
Ringgold, giving him no explanation in regard to them. When he returned
to the first cabin, Captain Scoble was just coming down the stairs.
He looked better-natured than when the passenger had last seen
him, possibly because he did not find himself in the presence of a
rebellious subject.

“How is your mother, Louis?” asked Captain Scoble, halting at the foot
of the steps, and looking the young man full in the face, as though he
had nothing to blush for.

“She is better,” replied the passenger, gently enough; for he had
resolved to be as firm as a rock, even while he was conciliatory. “She
would have left her berth, but the vessel began to roll worse than
ever, and she had to remain where she was.”

“The Maud rolled worse while we were reefing, for we had to throw her
up into the wind,” added the captain; and the listener thought he had
never seen him in a pleasanter frame of mind; and he was sure he must
have given himself a severe course of training before he came below.

“I noticed that she rolled very badly at one time.”

“My stupid mate ought to have reefed her before,” said Scoble. “He is
not much of a sailor when called upon to act on his own responsibility,
though he does very well under the direction of one who knows his
business.”

“I supposed Mr. Fobbington was a very skilful seaman,” replied Louis.

“Who?” demanded the captain, looking as though he had never heard the
name before.

“I beg your pardon: I mean Mr. Frinks, who, in a fit of pleasantry,
assumed the name of ‘Fobbington,’ just as, on a former occasion, you
took the name of Farrongate,” answered the passenger with a chuckle.

Scoble frowned so that his brow was covered with wrinkles at the
allusion to the name under which he had married Mrs. Belgrave, and
conducted all his operations as a jockey and pool manager. But he
evidently realized that he could not make anything by assuming a stormy
attitude with his present customer, and the wrinkles were suddenly
banished from his brow.

“Mr. Frinks is not much of a sailor,” repeated the captain, choking
down the passion that began to boil up.

“Not much of a sailor!” exclaimed Louis, who was playing a part as
really as the commander of the Maud. “Why, he speaks French like a
native.”

“I know he does, for I have talked with him in that language myself;
but we Englishmen don’t go to France to look for our sailors,” replied
Scoble, with a fine show of self-sufficiency, for his knowledge of
French consisted of half a dozen phrases he had picked up.

“I thought he had learned his French so thoroughly that he must have
made himself equally proficient in his seamanship.”

“Not at all. Frinks is the son of a merchant who spent a good deal of
money on his education. He died about three years ago, leaving his son
about ten thousand pounds. Frinks bought a yacht, and learned something
about a vessel. He ran through his money in two years, and has been a
sort of vagabond ever since. I took pity on him and made him mate of
the Maud.”

“He knows how to play the gentleman whether he is competent to play the
_rôle_ of mate or not,” added Louis. “He managed the little comedy you
laid out for him at the Park, as the presence of my mother and myself
on board of the Maud abundantly proves.”

“He did very well so far; but he failed totally to obtain the
information I wanted. In fact, he could tell me nothing, though he
hung round the office of that old lobster, Squire Scarburn, and heard
some conversations that were of no consequence whatever to me. He knew
nothing about you except that you wanted to buy a vessel.”

“Possibly I may be able to give you the information you desire, Captain
Scoble,” suggested Louis.

“Why do you call me Captain Scoble?” demanded the commander of the
Maud, with a gathering frown on his brow. “You have always been
accustomed to call me Mr. Farrongate, and I desire still to be called
by that name.”

“I am sorry that I cannot accommodate you, Captain Scoble.”

“What is the reason you cannot?” demanded the captain, subduing a
rising flash of anger.

“I suppose you have heard of the German who explained why he called his
son Hans, for it is a very antiquated chestnut.”

“I can’t say that I ever heard the German’s reason.”

“Der reason vot ve call our boy Hans is dot’s his name. I can only
plead the same excuse.”

At this moment the cook appeared at the door with a dish of potatoes
and a pot of coffee, announcing that dinner was ready.

“If you will excuse me, Captain Scoble, I will look into the stateroom
and see how mother is getting along,” said the passenger, moving to the
door.

“Ask her to come out and have some dinner. I will order anything she
likes,” added the captain.

“I will deliver your message,” answered Louis, as he went into the room
without making any noise.

He crept gently to her berth, and found that she was asleep. As her
slumber was doubtless doing her more good than a dinner would, even if
she were disposed to eat it, he did not disturb her, withdrawing from
the room as silently as he had entered. He reported the result of his
visit to the captain.

“She will be better if she can sleep,” replied Scoble. “The best thing
in the world for her would be to get up and go on deck if she feels
able to do so.”

“She is not ready for that yet, Captain Scoble.”

“Scoble again!” exclaimed the master; and the passenger understood why
he was so anxious to resume his former name, for he desired above all
things in the world to effect a reconciliation with Mrs. Belgrave. “May
I ask you as a favor, Louis, to call me Captain Farrongate?”

“I am sorry it is not in my power in this matter to oblige you,”
replied the young man with courtly dignity. “Excuse me, but your mate
called you by your right name, and you did not notice the fact till
he had addressed you so half a dozen times; all of which goes to show
that you have been called by your proper name on your voyage to this
country.”

“You were always a bit of a lawyer, Louis, my son,” said Scoble,
laughing, evidently because he could see no way out of the dilemma. “We
won’t jaw any more about it just now, though it will be necessary for
me to pick up the point again at another time. Dinner is ready, my boy;
sit down and make yourself entirely at home.”

“I thank you, Captain Scoble; I am sorry that I cannot join you. I have
already lunched, and that will pass for dinner to-day,” replied Louis,
still retaining his admirable self-possession.

“If you have lunched, you must have done so very early, and it is time
for you to eat again. Sit down and take a slice of ham, which is better
than most of the ham you get in America.”

“I can most cheerfully testify that this particular one is an excellent
ham, for I made a very hearty lunch off of it. By the way, Captain
Scoble, where do you buy your hams?” asked Louis in an every-day,
matter-of-fact tone and manner.

“This is a Scotch ham, and I bought a large supply of them in
Southampton. The shop is just above the arch in the old court building;
you can easily find it, and buy a stock for yourself. I can assure you
there are no better hams in the world, though the French hams are very
good,” said Scoble, trying to keep even with his involuntary guest.

“Thank you, Captain Scoble. I judge that the Maud is bound to
Southampton, and I may step into the shop you mention and buy a supply
of hams. It will at least enable me to save my bacon out of this
scrape.”

“Oh, yes; you can get as good bacon as hams at that place,” laughed
Scoble. “I am very glad to learn that you made yourself at home on
board of my vessel, and helped yourself when you were hungry, just as
you did in the old house. But you had better sit down and take a cup of
coffee, if nothing more; for I can say that Bickling makes almost as
good coffee as your mother did when we all lived together.”

“Thank you, Captain Scoble; I will accept your invitation to that
extent,” replied Louis, as he seated himself opposite the master. “We
did not have any coffee at our lunch, and I have found that it goes
very well at sea.”

“I suppose when you use the plural number that you include your mother.
Was she able to join you?”

“I did not mention the lunch to her, though I sent for a cup of tea for
her.”

“That was right, my boy; I am glad you made yourself at home.”

It was really a combat between Scoble and Louis to see which should
display the greater good humor, though the captain had to struggle
at times to keep his temper in subjection. The time had come for the
jockey to begin upon the great undertaking that had brought him to
the United States in face of the danger of being arrested and sent to
Sing-Sing as an embezzler. Doubtless he believed he could win back his
wife if he could keep her away from her son.




CHAPTER XI

A BATTLE IN POLITENESS


Louis Belgrave was still seated at the table with Captain Scoble, and
the skirmish of words was likely to become a pitched battle.

“You spoke just now as though you had been at sea some time in your
life, my boy. It must have been since I left the Park,” continued the
master of the Maud.

“I have not been on any long cruises, but I have made several trips in
the Blanche; and once I went around Long Island,” replied Louis.

“The Blanche! I don’t think I ever saw her.”

“Oh, yes, you have! You remember the day the Maud went to the bottom in
New York Bay. She came about just astern of you. You had discovered,
with the aid of your spy-glass, that mother and I were on her deck, and
you changed your course suddenly. That was the reason why the tug-boat
ran into you and stove a hole under the counter of the schooner.”

“Oh! That was the way it happened, was it? I did not know how it was
before, and I am glad to be informed,” replied Scoble, laughing as
though it were a capital joke. “I was afraid of you, and I tried to run
away?”

“Not exactly afraid of mother and me, but of the warrants in the
pockets of Mr. Woolridge and Uncle Moses,” added Louis very quietly, as
though he did not understand that his remark had a terrible sting in it.

“What Woolridge was that?” asked Scoble, choking down his wrath, for he
was bound to keep the peace for the present.

“He is the gentleman who had thirty-five thousand dollars in the little
new valise you carried on board of the steamer two years since. It
was long ago, and perhaps you have forgotten the circumstance. It was
he also who sent a cablegram to London that a certain deserter would
arrive at Liverpool in a certain steamer.”

The commander of the Maud winced, bit his lips, and twisted about on
his stool, but he still maintained his self-possession.

“I think you said you were bound to Southampton, Captain Scoble?”
continued Louis.

“Undoubtedly; you shall have the chance to buy your hams.”

“I suppose there is an office there from which I can send a cable
message to Uncle Moses. I shall be out of funds when I get there, and
I shall have to cable him to send me twenty thousand dollars, or so,”
said the passenger very glibly.

“You speak of twenty thousand dollars as though you had no great
respect for such a large sum,” chuckled the captain, who was not in
possession of the news from the Park for the last two months, and
perhaps not for the last two years.

“A mere bagatelle,” said Louis, with supreme indifference.

“That is very juicy talk for a young fellow like you, Louis, with an
income on which a country curate might starve,” returned Scoble, who
could make nothing of the magnificent talk of his passenger.

“Oh, Uncle Moses would send me fifty thousand, knowing that mother is
with me. Yes; he would send me a hundred thousand if my mother joined
me in the request, for she is my legal guardian, you know,” continued
Louis, who thought from the looks of his companion at the table that
the shots he was pouring into him were rather warm, if not red-hot.

“Nonsense, Louis! You are blowing, swelling, and gassing. But you can’t
make me tipsy on tepid water. That old lobster couldn’t raise twenty
thousand dollars to save his mustard-seed soul from a single day’s
perdition. Have another cup of coffee, my boy: it will warm you up and
help you to speak the truth.”

“No, I thank you, captain. This coffee is not tepid water, and it might
make me tipsy; and, judging from its effect upon you, who take it as a
steady diet, I don’t believe it would help me to tell the truth.”

“Very good, Louis! You were always rather smart,” replied Scoble, as he
moved back from the table, having finished his dinner.

“Thank you for your generous compliment, and especially for the
sincerity with which it is bestowed.”

“Do you smoke, my boy?” asked Scoble, taking a cigar from his pocket.

“No, sir; I do not, and I never tried to do so.”

“Then you are worse than a hot potato.”

“And you are no better than a hot potato because you do smoke, for
the smoke don’t make the potato any hotter. But if you have a good
cigar, I should like it for a friend, who has unfortunately acquired
the vicious habit,” said Louis, extending his hand to take the fragrant
roll. “I did not find any cigars in the pantry where I discovered the
Scotch ham, or I should have taken one for my friend.”

“Who is your friend, Louis? Do you intend to keep that cigar till you
get back to America?” asked the captain, as he held out his case to the
passenger, who took a cigar from it. “I am afraid it will be all dried
up by that time.”

“Not at all; my friend will doubtless smoke it this afternoon.”

“But who is your friend?” persisted Scoble.

“Captain Ringgold is the one for whom I desire the cigar, for my
chummy, Felix McGavonty, does not smoke any more than I do,” replied
Louis in a matter-of-fact manner.

“Oh, yes! I see; Ringgold and Felix. But I beg leave to remind you that
both of them are confined in the hold of the vessel; for I suppose you
have found that out before this time.”

“I learned the fact very soon after I came on board myself from Mr.
Frinks; but they are no longer in the hold of the Maud. I think you
owe me an apology, Captain Scoble, since we are getting to be so
everlastingly polite.”

“An apology! And for what can I possibly owe you an apology, my boy?”
demanded the master, looking at his victim very earnestly.

“For doing me a serious injustice, captain. Do you take me for a
young man with no bowels of compassion, no stomach for the duty of a
Christian, no liver, heart, lungs, backbone, or gizzard to feel for the
misfortunes of others?”

“Well, well! What has broke loose now?” queried the captain.

“My sense of justice, right, and duty broke loose pretty soon after I
came on board of this craft. You have done me the injustice to believe
that I had forgotten my friends, and left them to languish in the dark,
damp, and gloomy hold of this vessel. You wronged me; for I have taken
second-class passage for them, and dined them very nearly as well as
you have dined yourself, though they had none of that excellent coffee.”

“What do you mean by all this tirade of nonsense?” demanded Scoble, the
wrinkles beginning to gather on his forehead again.

“Isn’t my explanation plain enough? If it isn’t, I will take the
liberty to add that, as politeness is the order of the day,--and it was
very impolite to keep a dignified gentleman like Captain Ringgold, or
even my less dignified chummy Felix, in such a gloomy hole as the hold
of this vessel,--I assumed the responsibility of letting them out. You
were busy reefing the sails, and it was not convenient to consult you
as the commander of the schooner.”

“Do you mean to say that you have opened the hold and released Ringgold
and that imp of Scarburn’s?” cried the captain, shaking with rage.

“Pried off the hatch-bar and let them out, captain. But I thought we
were to be polite. As you ask me a question, I feel obliged to answer
it whether your courtesy is exhausted or not,” replied Louis, unmoved
by the increasing wrath of the commander. “As you were engaged at the
time, I felt it to be incumbent upon me to do the honors of the vessel.
I not only released my friends, but I invited them to occupy the second
cabin, where they will doubtless be contented till I can procure
accommodations for them in the main cabin.”

“Then you intend to invite them into the first cabin, do you?” demanded
the captain, with a curling sneer, and a sarcastic smile on his lips;
but the passenger made such a long and deliberate speech that he had
time to realize that he was ruining his case near his wife.

“It would be more proper, and therefore more courteous, for the highest
authority on board of the Maud to extend the invitation, and conduct my
friends to the first cabin. If you insist upon doing the honors of the
vessel in this respect, I shall certainly step aside in your favor, for
you are entitled to perform the ceremonies in person.”

“As they are friends of yours, Louis, you shall do the honors; but you
must not be impatient, for it may be a month before they come into this
cabin,” replied Scoble with an oath, which did not sound pretty to the
young man, or to his mother, who could not help hearing it.

“Thank you, Captain Scoble, for taking such a pleasant and sensible
view of the subject,” added the passenger, bowing as politely as a
French dancing-master.

At this moment the sick lady opened the door of the stateroom, and
came out into the cabin, supporting herself against the partition
till her son went to her assistance. She had heard the angry words of
Scoble, and could no longer remain in her berth. She bestowed a single
glance upon him who had been her husband. It was the first time in two
years that they had met face to face.

In spite of the fact that they had been separated so long, Louis was
glad to see that his mother manifested no decided emotion. It was
evident to him she had so schooled her mind and heart that she had
banished him from her affections. He appeared to be no more to her than
any other person.

As to any affection on the part of Scoble, Louis did not believe any
had ever existed. Though he pretended to be greatly moved by the
sight of the lady, her son could understand that it was nothing but
a pretence. He had no doubt the jockey had married his mother to get
nearer to the lost million which she would leave behind if she became
childless.

When Mrs. Belgrave came into the cabin, the captain sprang to his
feet as though a whirlwind of emotion had swept through his being.
He clasped his hands, and looked unutterably affectionate. He was
better fitted for comedy than for tragedy; and his acting produced no
impression upon the lady, who did not bestow a second glance upon him.
She gave all her attention to her son. Louis supported her, for she was
hardly able to stand on account of the uneasy motion of the vessel, and
conducted her to a divan near the stern windows of the cabin.

Scoble, still standing by the table with clasped hands, gazed at her
earnestly, though his expression was rather that of a sick monkey than
of a man worthy of such a woman. He would have given all the cigars
in his case if he could have got rid of Louis for a single hour, and
something handsomer for a longer time.

Aside from his presence at this inconvenient time, the young
millionaire was an enormous nuisance to him, an obstacle, a high wall
in his path. The young man had defeated his first and grandest scheme
by depriving him both of his wife and his stolen fortune, and had
ruined his second when he struck him down in the boat. That he hated
Louis is stating the case very mildly. He had looked upon his stepson
at first with contempt; but he had learned that he was to be feared,
and not despised.

Mr. Frinks came down to dinner, and his presence seemed to freeze all
the parties for the time. Scoble left his place near the table, and
moved farther aft, nearer to Mrs. Belgrave and her son. Either the mate
was not very hungry, or he did not approve the viands set before him,
and in a few minutes he had finished his meal. He did not speak a word,
but, after looking at the persons in the cabin, he retired.

There was no one else to dine at the cabin table; and Bickling, in
his capacity of steward, cleared the table, washing the dishes in the
pantry, so that he was out of hearing of those at the after end of the
cabin.




CHAPTER XII

THE POSSESSOR OF A MIGHTY SECRET


Captain Scoble rose from the divan in front of a berth where he had
remained while the mate was at his dinner, his face covered with his
hands, as though he were in a state of suffering, and walked toward
Mrs. Belgrave.

“Maud” said he, pausing with folded arms in front of her after he had
uttered her name.

They had been husband and wife for two years, and Louis was not
disposed to embarrass them with his presence, especially as he felt
that he could trust his mother to fight her own battle as far as their
personal relations was concerned. He retired from his position on the
divan at his mother’s side, and seated himself near the pantry, where
he could observe the operations of the steward. He did not intend
to leave the cabin even for a moment, and he was ready to interfere
whenever the comfort or the safety of his mother required.

Scoble had uttered the first name of Mrs. Belgrave as he had been
accustomed to address her in the past. He had done so in the most
impressive manner he could command, and the tone seemed to come up from
his boots, its lowness perhaps indicating the depth of his feeling. The
lady bestowed a single glance upon him, and then fixed her gaze on the
carpet, which had been a new one at no remote period, devoting her mind
to a study of the figures.

Probably the captain expected a reply from her. If he did he was
disappointed. The lady was no actress, and if she had gone on the
stage, which was an abomination to her, her face and form would have
been her only stock in trade. She said not a word, either with her
voice or her eyes.

“Maud, is it thus that we meet after a separation of two years?”
continued Scoble, his voice still coming from the vicinity of his boots.

She did not answer him: she did not even look at him.

“You are silent, Maud,” he proceeded, even more impressively than
before; and in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, his vanity
lead him to believe he had made a success of the first scene.

As she made no response, he seated himself at her side. Then he moved
up a little nearer to her, as doubtless he had done in earlier days.
The lady retreated to the farthest end of the divan. This movement did
not please the practised diplomate, and he rose from his seat, taking a
standing position in front of her. Louis was near enough to hear what
the captain said, and to see what both of them did; and the last action
on the part of his mother was particularly satisfactory to him.

“Won’t you speak to me, Maud?” asked Scoble in a tone disconsolate
enough to come from a graveyard.

“I have nothing to say,” she replied, bestowing upon him a glance as
blank as any coquette could have given in the practice of her art.

“You have nothing to say to me after a separation of two years, two
long years that seemed endless to me?” said the melancholy master of
the Maud.

“Nothing at all. I wish the separation had been fifty years longer,”
replied the lady in a tone that satisfied the son that all was going
well at the other end of the cabin.

“O Maud! Can it be you who speak to me in this cruel manner?”

“You can have no doubt that it is I. If you have, I add that I have
earnestly hoped I should never see your face again,” returned the lady,
with vim enough to satisfy the interested listener near the pantry.

“Am I so changed? Is my face odious to you now?” groaned the captain.

“Your face is the same; but you are all face: there is nothing of you
but face. There is nothing at all behind it. You are utterly hollow and
wicked.”

“O Maud! How can you be so cruel! Am I not your husband?”

“No!” she almost shouted, as she sprang from the divan, and stood in
front of him, looking him squarely in the eye this time.

“Did I not lead you to the holy altar in your own church? Were we not
made one by your own minister?” demanded Scoble, becoming even more
impressive as he proceeded.

“Never!” exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave in a loud and firm tone, such as Louis
had never heard her use before.

“Have you forgotten the scene in the church?” he asked in a low, solemn
tone.

“I have not forgotten it; for it was then that I was cheated, robbed
of my name, and led into a trap by a villain!” replied the lady. “The
marriage, as you call it, was a fraud, and long ago I ceased to regard
it as a marriage. It was a sacrilege, a profanation of the holy temple
in which the farce was acted.”

“Still, _you_ became my wife at that time,” added Scoble with a tinge
of triumph in his tone.

“I became your victim, not your wife!”

“We lived together as man and wife for over two years,” suggested the
captain, who was rapidly coming up from his boots, and abandoning his
graveyard elocution.

“I did not know you then. I do know you now; and there would be no
excuse for me before God or man if I recognized you as my husband. The
marriage was a fraud, and the law dissolved it from the beginning.”

“It would take something more than the law of that old porpoise you
call Uncle Moses to undo what was done according to the law of God and
man,” said Scoble with a heavy sneer.

“You were never my husband in reality, for you cheated me. You
pretended to be a person you were not.”

“I supposed the marriage was legal; and I certainly intended that it
should be so,” replied the captain, resuming his argumentative manner.

“Then you were an idiot!” exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave.

“I am no lawyer, as your son is, and the church pronounced us man and
wife,” retorted the captain with one of his heaviest sneers.

“If you are ignorant, I will enlighten you out of pity. The name of the
man I married was Wade Farrongate, as he gave it himself, as he was
known in the community, and as you will find it on the church register.
You are not that man.”

“I beg your pardon, Maud, I am that man,” persisted Scoble.

“It was a false name, and therefore the marriage was a fraud. I did
not consent to marry John Scoble, deserter from the British army, and
without consent there could be no marriage.”

“I see that old lobster has posted you thoroughly in your lesson,” said
the captain furiously.

“If necessary, I shall bring suit in the courts to have the marriage,
if there was any, annulled for fraud. You can defend yourself then,”
added Mrs. Belgrave more calmly.

“You know very well, Maud, that I am not at present in condition to
defend a suit in a New Jersey court,” said Scoble in a rather feeble
tone.

“Why not? You have money enough, since your uncle left you ten thousand
pounds. You could even sell your hotel if you came short.”

“You seem to know all about my affairs,” replied the captain, puzzled
at the knowledge of him the lady betrayed. “I have money enough; more
than you have now, Maud.”

“Then you can defend your rights, if you have any, in court.”

“Do not persist in misunderstanding me, Maud. You know very well I
cannot show myself on shore without being arrested; but I have never
been convicted of a crime.”

“The arrest usually precedes the conviction,” added Louis.

“I am not addressing my conversation to you, young man,” said Scoble
savagely.

“But I desire the assistance of my son in this matter, and if he cannot
speak, I have nothing more to say, Captain Scoble,” interposed Mrs.
Belgrave with freezing dignity.

“Do not call me Scoble, Maud; my name is Farrongate.”

“Do not stoop to a lie, even to defend a bad case, John Scoble, for
that is your name. Under that name you deserted from your regiment, and
under that name you were arrested for it. More than this, you told me
that was your real name.”

“No, Maud; you are mistaken.”

“I heard you say it,” protested Louis. “And your mate called you so a
dozen times before you noticed it.”

“We will not say anything more about the name at present, for it really
makes no difference what it is,” said Scoble, when the path in that
direction was blocked against him. “My only grief now is that you are
false to me, Maud.”

“I hope you will make the most of your only grief,” added the lady with
pointed sarcasm.

“Let us be friends, Maud; let us heal our differences.”

“We can only heal them when the leopard changes his skin, and the spots
cease to exist, which can never be in this world. You have proved to me
that you are a thief, a swindler, an embezzler, a highwayman; and these
are the differences between us. They cannot be healed, and we journey
in opposite directions.”

“Do not use such harsh terms, Maud, for I am not a bad man. I am as
good to-day as I ever was.”

“Then you have been a villain all the days of your life!”

“I do not belong to any church, but I think I am better than the
average of men,” added Scoble complacently.

“Then may God have mercy on the average of men!” exclaimed the lady,
lifting her hands towards heaven.

“You told me, my dear”--

“Silence, sir!” gasped the lady, as she started in the direction of the
stateroom.

“One moment, Maud,” pleaded the captain, following her.

“Wait a moment, mother,” interposed Louis, for he had a suspicion in
regard to the villain’s last point, and he was anxious to have him
state it.

“If you ever address another term of endearment to me, not even my son
shall call me back into your presence,” said Mrs. Belgrave, with an
intensified expression of scorn on her handsome face.

“You told me about a certain million of dollars left by your first
husband’s father”--

“By my husband’s father! I have had but one husband,” said she.

They talked for some time about the missing million; and it was plain
that Scoble had not heard that it had been recovered. He admitted that
he had heard of the lost treasure before he went to the Park to live,
and had followed up his inquiries while residing there.

“Now, madam, as neither your son nor you are disposed to treat me with
proper respect, I will say at once that I know just where that lost
million is located at this moment, and I can put my hand upon it at any
time,” continued Scoble, with a tremendous flourish, as though he held
the key to the situation, and all the obdurate woman and her son had to
do was to bend the knee to him.

“I am speaking to you now, madam. I have the power to put a million
of dollars into your family. Let us heal our differences, and the
first thing I will do after we are married again will be to put you
in possession of the money,” Scoble proceeded, though he seemed
to be somewhat disturbed by the coolness with which his important
announcement had been received.

“Do you think I would foster and cherish a villain, a swindler, a
highwayman, for all the millions in the world? No!”

Without another word she retreated to her stateroom. Louis told her to
lock the door, which she did.




CHAPTER XIII

CLOSING WITH THE ENEMY


Louis was quite as tired of the battle of words as his mother, though
it had given him a great deal of information that might be useful
to him. He had been very anxious to ascertain whether or not Scoble
was aware that the missing million had been discovered. He was now
satisfied that he was entirely ignorant of the fact that the vast
sum had been taken from its hiding-place, and safely invested by the
trustee. It was evident that he had known for at least two years where
the treasure was concealed, and he now offered his knowledge as a bribe
to effect a reconciliation with Mrs. Belgrave.

Frinks had resided at the hotel at the Park only long enough to
introduce himself to Louis. If he had talked with the people of the
town, or with the clerk of the hotel, he would have been likely to
learn the fact that the young man was a millionaire, though a few weeks
had been enough to make it an old story. Even if the agent had obtained
this knowledge, he had hardly had an opportunity to communicate it to
the captain since his return.

Louis had certainly spoken to him about his inability to spend his
large income; but most of their conversation had consisted of bantering
and pleasantries, and doubtless Frinks regarded the alleged difficulty
in spending his income as an idle boast; for he had claimed to be beset
by the same trouble. His single mission was to get Louis and his mother
on board of the schooner, and his mind had been fixed on this purpose.
At any rate, he had not been able to inform Scoble that the missing
million had been found; and the captain complained that his agent had
not obtained for him the current news at the Park.

Louis thought there had been talk enough, and that it was time
something was done. Of course he had not the least idea of allowing
his mother and himself to be conveyed to England, and especially not
in such a craft as the Maud, of whose sea-worthiness he had serious
doubts. Captain Ringgold had not yet reported on the state of her
timbers, but the mate had intimated that the masts were weak and
rotten. The time for action had come. The excitement of the interview
with the captain had certainly enabled Mrs. Belgrave to forget that she
was sea-sick, for she seemed to be as well as when she was on shore.

It was now about three by the cabin clock, and when Louis had escorted
his mother to the stateroom, he decided to visit his friends in the
second cabin, and arrange his plan either to capture the vessel, or to
effect the escape of the party. The captain was passionate and full of
malignity, and Louis thought he ought to be afraid of him. He could
not understand why he was not so, unless the presence of his mother on
board explained it. He was prepared for anything that might happen, and
he walked directly towards the pantry door, Bickling having gone to the
galley long before.

“Where are you going now, Louis?” demanded the captain, moving towards
his involuntary passenger, doubtless believing that he had some hostile
intention in his mind.

“I am going into the other cabin to see my friends,” replied Louis with
all the self-possession a young fellow could need under such trying
circumstances.

“No, you are not!” exclaimed the captain, his lips compressed, and his
eyes glaring like the serpent he was. “Perhaps it is necessary for me
to remind you that I command this vessel.”

“Not at all necessary, Captain Scoble; I am fully aware of the fact,
and I am perfectly willing that you should command her just as much as
you please.”

“Then you will remain in this cabin.”

“Excuse me; you may command the vessel and the crew all you like, but I
respectfully decline to be commanded,” added Louis.

“Let me tell you that the passengers as well as the crew are under my
orders.”

“I am not in the humor for any more discussions; you may command as
much as you please, and I shall not obey. I am a kidnapped prisoner,
and hardly a passenger,” retorted the young man, as he opened the
pantry door.

“Stop, you young rascal!” stormed the captain.

“Louis!” called his mother in a tone which assured him that she was
already alarmed at the situation, though it was likely to be a great
deal worse before it was any better.

Whatever happened he could not turn a deaf ear to the call of his
mother, and he started towards her. Scoble stood between him and
her, and it was necessary to pass him. Beside the pantry door was a
small stick of cord wood, not more than an inch in diameter, which the
steward used to fasten the door back when he was at work on the dishes.
Louis grasped it, for he did not care to take out his revolver in the
presence of his mother if he could avoid it.

Armed with this stick, which he used as a cane, he moved towards Mrs.
Belgrave. He was quite ready to use it as a weapon if necessary, though
he was not belligerent enough to do so unless the occasion absolutely
required it.

“What are you going to do with that stick, you young ruffian?” demanded
Scoble, speaking in the imperative mood, as though he insisted upon an
immediate answer.

“I do not wish to do anything with it; but I have seen the time when
I found it convenient to have a stick in my hand. For instance, when
you attempted to rob Mr. Woolridge of the ten thousand dollars in his
pocket, between your stable and the station, I should have been very
glad to have a club in my hand, though it might have cost you a broken
head. As it was, Flix and I fought the battle with our naked fists.
I came off with your collar and necktie, which mother identified as
yours, and I have them still as mementoes of the occasion. You will
admit that a stick is sometimes a handy thing to have in your hand, and
I thought I would be provided with one on the present occasion, if you
do not object,” replied Louis, putting in a point not before touched
upon.

“But I do object,” growled the captain, though it was plain that he had
been startled by the reply of the rebellious passenger.

“All right; I will hear your objections next summer,” said Louis, as he
came to his mother’s side.

“I am afraid you will get hurt, my son,” pleaded Mrs. Belgrave, as she
took his hand.

“I am a hundred times more afraid that you will get hurt than that I
shall,” continued Louis, as he led her back into the stateroom. “Don’t
be at all alarmed about me; I can take care of myself. Go in, mother;
lock the door, and do not come out.”

“That is my stateroom, and I shall not give it up to any person, and
especially not to one who treats me as that woman does,” interposed the
captain with a fierce scowl on his brow. “I say, I shall not give up my
room!”

“Yes, you will, my dear captain, for you were always the most gallant
man in the world, and you are not going to belie your record on this
happy occasion,” replied Louis, as he came out of the room, closing the
door behind him, which his mother immediately locked.

“I would give it up to a lady,” said Scoble with the most withering
sneer he could paint on his handsome face, or it would have been
handsome if he had not made it ugly at this moment.

“Thank you, captain; I knew you would give it up to a lady.”

“Do you call that woman a lady?” demanded the captain, looking as ugly
as sin itself, however personified.

“A word, Captain John Scoble,” said Louis, stepping towards him, with
the lower end of his stick raised from the floor. “You may call me
anything you please, and I shall enjoy it as much as you do; but if you
say an insolent or disrespectful word to or of my mother, I shall have
immediate occasion to use this stick.”

“This is mutiny!” roared the captain, dancing about the cabin floor in
his wrath like a jumping-jack.

“I dare say it is; if it be mutiny to protect my mother from insult, I
shall be a mutineer to your heart’s content,” returned Louis, as his
mother opened the door again, and stepped out.

Her son hastened to her, and keeping one eye on the miscreant, gently
crowded her back into the room.

“Now, my dear mother, do not be alarmed at anything you may hear. I
am abundantly able to take care of this man without the help of our
friends. I am going to bring them into this cabin, and I hope this
circus will come to an end before night,” said he to her.

“But don’t be rash, my dear boy,” she replied, drawing him hastily to
her breast, and kissing him on his brow. “I am terribly frightened.”

“There isn’t anything to frighten you, dear mother. I shall be with you
again in a minute or two,” he added, as he disengaged himself from her
arms.

He turned suddenly and discovered Scoble near the door, ready to make
a plunge at him while his back was turned, or at least to go into the
room. The moment he saw the face of the young defender of his mother,
he retreated a few steps, still yielding a respectful homage to the
stick.

“This is my stateroom, and though I might give it up to your mother,
badly as she has behaved”--

“She has behaved like a heroic Christian woman, and whether you consent
or not, she shall occupy this room,” answered Louis firmly.

“Let her occupy the room!” exclaimed the captain, who seemed now to
have some other object than to dispute the occupancy of the room in
view.

“Thank you, Captain Scoble,” said Louis, bowing, for he never forgot
his politeness, which was something more substantial than mere bowing
and scraping.

“But all my things are in that room, and I desire to go in and get some
of them,” continued the captain; and Louis concluded that he wanted
to procure the pair of revolvers of which he had already obtained
possession.

“I am sorry to disoblige you, but you cannot go into the room at
present, for it is occupied by a lady,” replied Louis.

“My night-shirt is in there.”

“Then I am afraid you will have to sleep in your day-shirt if you sleep
at all.”

Louis moved away from the door, and the captain retreated before him,
apparently expecting to receive a blow on the head from the club, as he
had on another occasion; and he therefore knew that the young man had
the pluck to strike.

“This is mutiny!” howled Scoble, evidently unable to control himself
any longer.

“So you suggested once before, and I dare say it is mutiny,” replied
Louis indifferently.

“I will have you put in irons!” gasped the captain, almost foaming at
the mouth.

“Bring on your irons,” added the mutineer carelessly.

Captain Scoble took a pair of rusty handcuffs from the table drawer,
and marched towards the rebel as magnificently as though he had already
executed his terrible threat. He went as near his intended victim as he
dared to go, and then cast them at his feet, the irons making a ringing
noise as they struck the floor.

“There they are!” exclaimed Scoble.

“All right; but when you put them on it will be necessary for me to be
present, and you will kindly let me know when you are ready to perform
the ceremony.”

“I will let you know, you young scoundrel!”

“Thank you, captain. The things won’t do any harm on the floor, and I
am willing to let them remain there till you are ready to put them on.
By the way, don’t you think you had better have them cleaned before you
make use of them? for they look as though they were too rusty to be
comfortable.”

“You will find them very comfortable when you are shut up in the hold,
you impudent rascal!” cried the captain, dancing about in his inability
to contain himself.

“Probably I shall when I am shut up in the hold. Very likely you will
look upon it as mutiny, but I can’t help hinting that I have not the
least idea of being shut up in the hold. I am at liberty just now, and
I intend to remain free.”

“You won’t be free long!” yelled the captain, as he darted towards the
companion-way, no doubt with the intention of calling some of the crew
to his assistance.

Louis stepped between him and the stairs with the club in the air; and
this movement caused the captain to retreat again. At the same time, he
took his revolver from his pocket, for he thought he had better make
things a little plainer to the enemy.

“Captain Scoble, you will do me the favor to retire to the after end of
this cabin,” said he, pointing the weapon at him.

The villain could not stand the pistol, and obeyed the command. Louis
remained near the pantry till Scoble reached the divan, under the stern
windows.




CHAPTER XIV

THE VICTORY IN THE CABIN


Louis Belgrave knew Scoble perfectly, and believed with all his might
that he was a coward; otherwise he would hardly have dared to drive him
to the farther end of the cabin, though he had the means in his hands
of enforcing his command. With a revolver in one, and a club in the
other, he felt strong enough to do anything.

He was grievously tired of the long discussions, useful to some extent
as they had been, which had taken place in the cabin, and the necessity
of some more decided action had been pressing upon him for some time.
The sickness of his mother had prevented him from doing anything more
than release his companions in the second cabin from their prison in
the hold; and the long talks had been forced upon him by the presence
of the captain.

He had not had an opportunity to consider the situation of his mother
and himself as calmly and judicially as he desired. Even if he could
get out of the present difficulty, Scoble would be in the field to make
another attempt upon the tranquillity of his mother at another time. He
believed it would not be a difficult matter, after the preparations he
had made, to escape from the vessel; but the schooner and the villain
would still be in the vicinity of his home, and he could renew his
assault at a future time.

As he stood by the pantry with his eyes fixed upon the captain, he
could not help asking himself if he had done wisely in not telling
the villain that the missing million had been recovered. That was the
object of his visit to the United States, and he had bought the Maud
for this special purpose. For the hidden treasure he had married Mrs.
Belgrave; for that he had tyrannized over his wife’s son; and for that
he had intended to take them both to England, where the boy would be
more under his control. In fact, all that he had done had been with the
single object of obtaining eventually the possession of the million.

Even if Scoble knew that the money had been found, and was held in
trust for Louis, he was aware that the boy’s only heir was his mother,
and everything would remain practically the same. Nothing would have
been gained by announcing the discovery of the treasure to the villain.
After he had looked the matter over thoroughly he was satisfied that
the situation was quite as well as it was.

He had hardly come to this satisfactory conclusion before the Maud
began to behave in a very violent and unruly manner. She pitched and
rolled furiously, so that it began to be rather difficult for the
young landsman to keep on his feet. Either the gale had increased in
force, or the vessel had reached a more exposed position. The water was
breaking over the schooner, and it could be heard pounding upon the
deck. Some of it poured down the companion-way into the cabin; and
then Louis heard the mate order one of the sailors to close the doors,
and draw the slide.

Captain Scoble did not offer to leave the divan under the stern windows
where he had been driven, and Louis went to the pantry. He opened
the door leading into the steerage, and shouted the name of Captain
Ringgold. He was absent from the cabin but a few seconds, for he
knew he could not trust Scoble to keep quiet. Before the shipmaster
appeared, Mr. Frinks came down into the cabin. He must have heard some
of the loud talk in the cabin, for the skylight was not far from the
wheel. He had shown no disposition to interfere with the captain’s
affairs, at least not till he was called upon to do so.

The mate seemed to be greatly astonished to find everything so tranquil
in the cabin. He looked at Louis, and then cast his eyes about,
evidently in search of the captain. He did not see him at first; for
that worthy, in the absence of anything better to do, appeared to have
lain down and gone to sleep.

“Where is the captain?” asked the mate.

“He is somewhere about here,” replied Louis indirectly.

“It is about time for him to come on deck, for it is blowing great
guns, and we have just got out from the lee of the north shore. It is
wet on deck, and I want my rubber coat,” replied Frinks, as he went to
the stateroom opposite that occupied by Mrs. Belgrave.

[Illustration: “THE SHIPMASTER CHANGED HIS GRIP TO THE THROAT OF THE
PROSTRATE VILLAIN.” Page 112.]

He procured the coat and came out again; but he had enabled Louis to
ascertain where he berthed in the cabin. He asked Louis to tell the
captain that he had better go on deck if he saw him, which he did not
promise to do, and then returned to his duty. He had hardly closed the
slide before Captain Ringgold came out of the pantry.

“I saw that you had company, and I waited till the mate had gone,” said
the captain. “I saw that you were having no trouble, or I should have
come at once. What is going on here?”

“I will tell you all about it in a few minutes, for”--

“How is your mother, Louis?” interposed the shipmaster, fearful that
something had happened to her.

“She is all right; she has got over her sea-sickness. I want you
to tell me where we are, if you can, and what makes this violent
kick-up of the vessel,” said Louis, who was ready to act, but did not
understand the situation of the Maud.

“I can only guess where we are, for I have not had a sight of the sea
or the shore,” replied Captain Ringgold. “I don’t believe this vessel
has made more than two and a half knots an hour since she got under
way. I should say that we were just outside of Sandy Hook; and the last
kick-up began when she got out where she could feel the swell of the
broad ocean.”

“Is the vessel in any danger now?”

“Bless you, no! Not if she is well handled.”

“Then we will proceed to business,” said Louis.

“What is the business to which we are to proceed?” asked the captain.

“Call Flix, if you please, and I will tell you both all about the
situation,” continued the leader, who still held his revolver and stick
in his hands.

“Shall I bring the cook also, for he has been with us in the fore cabin
for some time?” inquired the shipmaster.

“No, I think not,” replied Louis, though he believed he had made a
friend of Bickling.

In a few minutes Captain Ringgold returned, followed by Felix, who
looked about him with curiosity and interest. Louis proceeded at once
to inform his friends briefly what had transpired in the cabin, and
added that his mother was in the stateroom.

“I think you said you were ready to proceed to business, Louis,” said
the shipmaster. “What is the nature of the business?”

“To capture the vessel and go to New York in her,” replied the leader
bluntly and to the point.

“That is plain talk; and I don’t think we should call the taking of the
schooner by any such hard name as piracy. We were all kidnapped; and
I do not believe this is a legal voyage, for I doubt if the craft has
any papers. But you are the chief of the party, and I will follow your
orders as long as they don’t lead us into hot water, for you have got
the run of this affair, and I have not,” said the captain.

“And what am I to do, my darlint?” asked Felix.

“I will tell you what to do when the time comes. Now, Captain Ringgold,
the first thing is to put the captain in irons,” added Louis. “The
irons are all ready, for Scoble got them out for me.”

“I’m wid ye’s, me darlint!” exclaimed Felix; and perhaps the business
in hand was more to his mind than to that of the others.

Louis led the way aft, but he halted between the two staterooms, one on
each side of the cabin. He pointed out the unoccupied one as belonging
to the mate, and suggested that he might be provided with one or more
revolvers, as Captain Scoble had been. He thought it would be well to
take possession of them if there were any in the room, and he sent
Felix to look for them, telling him to open the drawers corresponding
to those from which he had taken the master’s weapons.

While he was absent, Louis and his companion moved towards Scoble,
still lying on the divan. He did not notice them, and he appeared to be
asleep. It had been a mighty calm to him after the excitement of his
interview with Mrs. Belgrave, and a sailor drops asleep very readily.
Felix joined them presently, with a single revolver in his hand, saying
he could find no more.

Louis had brought with him the handcuffs the captain of the Maud had
cast upon the floor. He had examined them, and found they closed with a
heavy spring, and worked well enough. Scoble did not move as the trio
approached him; and certainly he had been very accommodating to take
his nap at just that time.

“Leave the rest of this matter to me, Louis; I can handle that man
better than I could a live lobster,” said Captain Ringgold, who was a
rather large and muscular man. “You may speak to him, Louis, and then I
will take care of him.”

“Captain Scoble!” said the chief in a loud and sharp tone.

“Well, what is it?” replied the sleeper, moving a little.

“We are ready to put on the irons,” added Louis.

“Oh, you are!” exclaimed Scoble, springing up to a sitting posture.

“But, if you please, we will change the programme a little, and put
them on your wrists; and I hope you will find them comfortable,”
continued the young chief.

“Never!” yelled the master of the Maud, when he discovered three
persons in front of him.

“Now, I think we will, Captain Scoble,” said the stalwart shipmaster,
as he seized his intended victim by his two shoulders, and threw him
over on his back upon the divan. “Now, slip the bracelets on his
wrists, boys, and don’t let him hurt you.”

Scoble struggled, twisted, kicked, struck out with his fists, and did
all that a man in his situation could do. Louis got hold of one of his
hands, and then sat down upon his lower limbs, while Felix grasped
the other hand. The shipmaster changed his grip to the throat of the
prostrate villain, who was soon worn out with his struggles. Without
any further difficulty the handcuffs were sprung upon his wrists, and
he was powerless to do any mischief.

At this moment Mrs. Belgrave came out of the stateroom.




CHAPTER XV

AN OBDURATE PRISONER


Captain Scoble had made noise enough during the struggle on the divan
to be heard in the stateroom where Mrs. Belgrave was passing her time
in fear and anxiety. It was not for herself that she worried and
trembled; but she was in constant dread that Louis would be overpowered
and seriously injured in the conflict she was now assured was in
progress.

“O Louis! Louis!” she screamed as she came out of her room in time to
see the conclusion of the conflict, and hastened as rapidly as the
uneasy motion of the vessel would permit to the scene of action.

“Don’t be alarmed, mother,” returned the son, as he ran to her support.
“It is all over now, and you have nothing to fear.”

“What is all over? What have you been doing?” asked the lady, hardly
able to speak in the violence of her emotion.

“You can see that Scoble is in irons, and it is not possible for him to
harm you or me just now,” replied Louis.

“In irons? What does that mean?”

“He has a pair of handcuffs, which he brought out for me, on his
wrists.”

“But what are you going to do with him, my son?” asked the lady, who
seemed to be hardly less terrified now than before.

“I don’t know yet, mother: we have not decided what to do, though of
course we shall get back to the Park as soon as possible. We have
disposed of Scoble for the present, and we shall soon ascertain what we
shall do next. What makes you tremble so, mother? You have nothing to
alarm you now.”

“I am afraid you will get hurt, Louis.”

“But you need not be afraid, for there are three of us, and Captain
Ringgold is a match for any two of the men on board of the Maud. Flix
and I are not ciphers, and we can manage the matter very well, I assure
you. I have no idea of being conveyed to England, or of permitting you
to be conveyed there. I hope and expect you will be at the Park some
time this evening. Now be a good mother, and go into your stateroom
again, and keep very quiet there.”

“But what are you going to do, my son?” demanded Mrs. Belgrave, still
filled with terror and anxiety.

“I don’t know yet. We have fought the battle in the cabin, and won the
victory, and that practically settles the whole matter. Scoble can do
none of us any harm now.”

“But he and his men may be armed with pistols; and I am confident he
would shoot you if you resisted him.”

“You forget, mother, that I took his revolvers from his room, and I
have given them to Captain Ringgold, who has them in his pockets at
this moment. Our party are all armed, though I hope we shall not be
compelled to use our weapons. Now come to your room, and as soon as we
have decided what to do, I will see you and tell you all about it,”
said Louis, as he took the arm of Mrs. Belgrave and conducted her to
her room. “Now lock the door, and lie down in your berth. Make yourself
as comfortable as you can, for this state of things cannot last much
longer.”

She went into the stateroom, though she was plainly very reluctant to
do so. Nervous and timid as she was, she would have thrown herself
physically into any affray in which the safety of her son was
menaced. In the presence of Scoble she had manifested a courage and
determination, which were a revelation to Louis. She was disposed to
protect her son by the sacrifice of herself.

Louis called her his guardian-mother; and this was an expression that
greatly pleased his fancy. He looked upon her as an influence greater
and more powerful than all others on the earth combined. He was strong
and energetic in the battle upon which he had just entered through the
influence she exerted over him. He felt that life would be nothing to
him without her. He heard her lock the door after he had kissed her and
retired from the room.

Scoble still sat upon the divan at the stern of the cabin, where the
stout shipmaster had cast him like an unclean bird after he had been
ironed. He could not help realizing that he had been conquered, but he
had not been subdued. Louis hastened to the after end of the cabin as
soon as he had disposed of his mother. The captain of the Maud seemed
to be dazed, confounded, and astonished at the result of the conflict
in which he had been engaged. One so arbitrary and self-sufficient had
some difficulty in believing that he had actually been overcome, and in
his own cabin. But the violence of his wrath had apparently subsided,
and he was silent, looking from one to another of his late assailants.

“What next?” he demanded, as he fixed his gaze upon Louis, evidently
regarding him as the leader and chief engineer of the movement in
progress.

“We are not disposed to make you any more uncomfortable than is
necessary to prevent you from doing any harm to my mother and myself;
and I think we shall be abundantly able to protect ourselves, Captain
Scoble,” replied Louis, taking upon himself the office of spokesman. “I
wish to say for myself that, in spite of all you have done, I bear no
malice towards you. I shall do nothing, and my friends here will not,
to injure you, or even to annoy you, unless it shall be necessary to
protect myself and mother.”

“That is all very fine, you young scapegrace!” exclaimed Scoble,
looking fiercely at the speaker. “We are on the high seas now, and you
are engaged in a mutiny: you have captured the vessel, so far as I am
concerned; and if I wished to get rid of you, as you say I do, I need
only hand you over to the courts, and the penalty of your crime is
death.”

“Not much high seas just here, Captain Scoble,” said Captain Ringgold,
laughing at the threat of the other. “I have been to sea more than you
have, and I know something about this matter. The principal idea is
that four persons have been kidnapped on board of this vessel, and they
are making an effort to save themselves, and to avoid being carried out
of this country to a foreign shore. We will take our chances on the
mutiny question.”

“Captain Ringgold, you are a sensible man; but you plainly do not know
this boy who is leading you about by the nose,” continued Scoble, in
quite a gentle tone for him. “That young thief robbed me of a good many
thousand dollars.”

“Which you obtained by robbing those who trusted you with their money.
But this young gentleman restored all this money to the rightful
owners,” added the Park captain. “You are aware that warrants have
been sworn out for your arrest as soon as you put yourself within
the jurisdiction of the State of New York or New Jersey; and under
these circumstances we don’t shake a particle at the idea of being
charged with mutiny. I am in the same boat with Louis, literally and
figuratively.”

“I suppose the next step will be to hand me over to a constable or
sheriff,” added Scoble; and this thought evidently had a very subduing
effect upon him, for he fixed his gaze upon the cabin floor and was
silent.

“Well, Louis, I don’t think it will amount to anything to talk any
longer over the matter. It is time something more was done,” said
Captain Ringgold.

“I quite agree with you, sir: I have done talking enough with this
man since I came on board of the Maud. He understands the views and
feelings of my mother; and that is the main thing with me. He knows
just where she stands now; and I hope he will cease to pursue a woman
who has no respect or regard whatever for him,” added Louis.

“Maud Farrongate is my wife! You know it as well as I do, Louis; and I
will follow her to the farthest ends of the earth, and compel her to
return to her duty to me! I am not a spring chicken to be frightened
away from my rights, and from my duty to my wife, by a boy who is
trying to be a hawk. You understand me, Louis. Whatever happens to me,
I shall struggle for my rights as long as there is any life, any soul,
left in me!” said Scoble, crowding all the bitterness and malignity of
his nature into his speech.

“That’s enough!” exclaimed Captain Ringgold. “I am enlisted with you,
Louis, for the war; and I will stand by you as long as there is any
life, any soul, left in me. Let us proceed to business, and this fellow
may fume and vapor to his heart’s content while we are engaged in more
telling employment. What next?”

“I propose to lock Captain Scoble into the stateroom on the starboard
side of the cabin,” replied Louis. “I will see that it is in condition
for him.”

The leader of the movement was afraid Felix had not been searching
enough in his examination of the room; for he had brought out but one
revolver, and he was afraid there might be another there. Calling his
crony to accompany him, they went to the mate’s room. Louis decided
that it would be the most prudent way to remove everything in it to the
cabin, and this they did, without finding a dangerous weapon of any
kind.

“Now, Captain Scoble, if you are disposed to make things pleasant, you
will take up your quarters in the room prepared for you without any
useless opposition,” said Captain Ringgold, when Louis reported to him.

“I have been outraged, my”--

“All right, captain; and four persons on board have been outraged
besides yourself; but we have no time to talk about it. If you will be
kind enough to move into the room made ready for you, that will save me
the trouble of putting you there myself,” interposed the shipmaster.

“I will not submit to this treatment! I will not do anything that looks
like submission!” protested Scoble, squirming as much as he could with
his wrists ironed behind him.

“Just as you please, captain,” said Captain Ringgold, seizing him
by the collar of his coat with both hands, and dragging him to the
stateroom as though he had been nothing but a small boy, for he was
powerless in the grasp of his stalwart conqueror.

With no difficulty whatever he thrust him into the room, and closed the
door upon him. Louis was ready with the key of the lock, and promptly
secured him so that he could not escape without breaking the door down.
He seemed to be disposed to do this, and at once began to deliver
violent blows, apparently with the heels of his boots, against the
lower panel of the door.

“That won’t do,” said the stout captain briskly. “He is determined to
be as uncomfortable as possible, and he shall have his own way. Unlock
the door, Louis. Flix, go and find some cord, or rope; I saw some in
the passage to the fore cabin.”

Louis opened the door, and Felix hastened to procure the line required.
Captain Ringgold went into the room, and took the prisoner by the
collar, and shoved him over to a stool in the corner.

“You make more noise than the law allows, Captain Scoble,” said his
resolute captor, looking about the room to arrange his plan for dealing
with the obdurate man.

“I told you I would not submit, and there is no such thing as
submission in me!” howled Scoble.

“So much the worse for you, my man; but I shall keep you quiet in spite
of all you can do.”

“See if you do!” replied the prisoner, still manifesting persistent
defiance of his stout adversary. “You may kill me, but you cannot
subdue me! I am a free-born Briton, and I submit to no man!”

“You are a free-born thief that ought to be behind prison walls, and I
hope to have you there soon,” added the captain, who proceeded with the
help of the boys to bind his ankles together, and then made him fast to
the front of the berth.




CHAPTER XVI

ALLEGIANCE TO THE POWERS THAT BE


Captain Scoble was an infant in the hands of a man as powerful as the
shipmaster, and he was soon made fast so that he could not move hand or
foot. It was an uncomfortable position to which he had been reduced,
but he had brought it all upon himself by obduracy. He howled and swore
like a pirate; but nothing more was said to aggravate him, and as soon
as he was securely bound to the front of the berth, the party left him
to become a wiser and more docile man.

“Now, Captain Belgrave, what next?” asked the captain from the Park, as
he looked at Louis with a smile.

“I will leave that to you, sir. I am not a captain, and I could not
handle the schooner to save my life, or even to save my mother’s life,”
replied Louis as he led the way to Mrs. Belgrave’s stateroom.

“So far as the navigation of the vessel is concerned, I will attend to
that; but I look upon you as the leader of the enterprise by which we
are to be restored to our homes at Von Blonk Park. You know that man in
the stateroom better than I do, and I think you ought to say what shall
be done.”

“We will arrange it all between us. But it seems to me that the Maud is
tumbling about in a very wild way,” replied Louis, as he grasped the
handle of his mother’s door to avoid being hurled over to leeward.

“We are going to have a violent north-easter, and one is due about this
time of year. Whatever this schooner may be able to do with a free
wind, she can’t do much close-hauled. But that question will come up
later,” added the captain.

“What is all the noise I heard just now, Louis?” asked Mrs. Belgrave,
opening the door of her room at this moment.

“Scoble is bound hand and foot and locked into the stateroom on the
other side of the cabin,” replied her son. “He can do nothing now, and
you have no more to fear.”

This explanation satisfied the terrified woman, and she retired again.
Captain Ringgold and Felix had seated themselves on a divan, for it
was exceedingly difficult to stand in the cabin. The time had come to
decide what was to be done with the vessel; for she was still in the
hands of the crew, consisting of the mate and two men, besides the
cook. She had hands enough to manage her; but there were still four men
against one stout man and two stout boys.

Whether or not the crew would stand by their captain and fight for
him was an interesting question; and when they were preparing to face
it Bickling, the cook, came into the cabin from the deck. He at once
announced that he had been sent below to ascertain the occasion of the
noise by Mr. Frinks, who said it sounded like blows with an axe upon
one of the doors.

“Which it was a great noise, for I ’eard it myself in the galley,”
added the cook, steadying himself by holding on at the table.

“Perhaps the mate had better come below himself and have the noise
explained to him,” replied Captain Ringgold.

“Which ’e can’t leave the deck, sir, for the vessel is making very bad
weather of it; and Mr. Frinks is wondering where is the captain that ’e
don’t come on deck and attend to the vessel,” said the cook.

“Do you know anything about the affairs of this vessel, cook?” asked
the captain sharply.

“Which I don’t know anything at all about anything, sir.”

“You don’t? How long have you been on board of her?”

“Only two weeks and three days, sir.”

“Didn’t you come over from England in her?”

“No sir, I did not; I was cooking at a ’otel in Baltimore when Captain
Farrongate engaged me. I took the lay because I wanted to go home to
Hengland.”

“Who was the cook that came out in the Maud?”

“Which she ’ad no cook coming out, sir; but one of the seamen did the
cooking.”

“Why do you call him Captain Farrongate when his name is Scoble?”

“The ship’s company all called ’im Captain Scoble till a few days ago,
and then we were all told to call ’im Captain Farrongate, which it is
true we all called ’im after that.”

“Did you know that all the persons who came on board this forenoon were
kidnapped, and that two of us were confined under the lower hatch?”

“Kidnapped! Bless my body, no sir! I never ’eard a word said about any
such thing sir!” protested the cook, with energy enough to be telling
the truth.

“Didn’t any of the hands say anything to you about it? Didn’t they tell
you they had put the hatches on when two of us went into the lower hold
to examine the vessel?”

“Not a word about it, sir; which I mind my business, sir, and I have
nothing to do with the foremast hands except to give them a kid of beef
and a dish of h’ard bread.”

The party wondered if this man was telling the truth. Louis stated that
he had seen but three men leave the Maud at the time she was sunk,
which confirmed a part of the cook’s story, that he had been on board
but about two weeks, and had not come from England in her.

“We have made some changes about the schooner, cook, and we should
like to know how you stand. Captain Scoble has been put in irons, and
is locked up in the starboard stateroom,” added Captain Ringgold, in
an impressive manner. “We were all kidnapped, including the lady in
this stateroom, and Scoble was intending to take her and her son, and
perhaps the rest of us, to England. We have taken possession of the
vessel, and I mean to take her to New York.”

“The captain in irons! Bless my body!” exclaimed the cook, apparently
overwhelmed by the news.

“It is just as I state it, and the noise you heard was made by Captain
Scoble, trying to get out of the room where we have confined him. But
we have bound him hand and foot, and made him fast to the front of the
berth, so that he can do nothing more to help himself. Now, my man, do
you want to fight on Scoble’s side?”

“Bless my body! No, sir! Which I always run away when a fight is coming
on,” protested Bickling.

“If you wish to take part in this conspiracy with Scoble and the mate,
I shall be under the necessity of binding you hand and foot, and making
you fast to a stanchion. You will obey no order given by Scoble or the
mate,” continued the shipmaster, taking from his hip-pocket one of the
revolvers with which Louis had provided him.

“Bless my body! Revolvers!” groaned the cook, as though one had already
been fired at him; for both of the boys imitated the example of the
captain and produced their weapons, though the exhibition was only for
its moral effect. “I see you have the hupper ’ands, sir, and I will
obey your orders in all things.”

“All right, Bickling. Now you will go on deck and tell the mate all
you have learned, and we will be with you in a few minutes,” said the
captain; and the cook made all haste to get out of the reach of the
revolvers.

“I measured that man about right,” said Louis, after Bickling had gone.
“I did not look for any powerful opposition from him.”

“As he says, he minds his own business, and don’t care who is king.
Probably we shall have to serve Mr. Fobbington as we have the captain.”

“His name is Frinks; and I think he is a smarter man than Scoble; but I
am sure we can handle him.”

“I am used to this sort of thing, Louis, for I once had occasion to put
down a mutiny on the north-west coast. Frinks may give us some trouble;
but the seamen will be about such fellows as Bickling. They work for
their wages, and don’t care who is captain of the ship. Now, Louis, we
will go on deck, and when I have seen what the wind and weather are, I
shall know what we had better do in a nautical point of view.”

Louis expected there would be some sort of a brush with Frinks, for
he must be familiar with the whole length and breadth of the plot to
capture Louis and his mother. He could not plead ignorance of the
designs of Scoble, for he had really managed the whole affair. The
stick with which the rebellious passenger had intimidated Scoble lay on
the floor where he had left it, and he picked it up, ready to make use
of it with regret if occasion should require.

It was not an easy thing for the landsmen to mount the companion-stairs,
for the Maud was leaping like a running horse, and the sea was breaking
over her bows at every plunge she made. The two seamen had been driven
to the shelter of the caboose, for there was nothing for them to do.
The scene on the quarter-deck, where the mate still kept the wheel, was
likely to be a stormy one in a double sense.

Bickling had not yet finished his story relating to the condition of
things in the cabin. Frinks was plainly very much interested, and
the situation had evidently been anticipated by him. Louis had told
Captain Ringgold all he knew about Frinks, who was a good deal of a
humorist; but whether or not he was a fighting character was yet to be
ascertained, though in the opinion of the shipmaster it did not make
much difference.

“I salute you, Mr. Frinks,” said the captain, politely addressing the
mate. “You have heard the whole story from the cook, and I suppose
there is nothing more to be said of a descriptive nature.”

“Who the dickens are you, my fine fellow?” demanded Frinks, who knew
nothing at all about the gentleman who addressed him.

“Well, sir, I am Captain Royal Ringgold; and I have been to sea enough
to see that you are handling this craft in a very lubberly fashion;
and I am about to relieve you of the helm, and have the vessel better
managed.”

“Thank you, Captain Royal Ringgold; I shall be under very great
obligations to you for doing so. If you can make this old tub do any
better, I should like to see it done; but I think we shall soon find
that we have two lubbers on board instead of one,” replied the mate as
pleasantly as he had talked to Louis.

“I think we had better attend to one or two preliminaries before we
do anything. You assisted Captain Scoble to kidnap four persons at
this moment on board of the Maud. Is this a true bill?” demanded the
captain, placing himself close beside the mate.

“Yes, sir; as true as the comic almanac,” answered Frinks squarely,
with a smile on his spray-covered face.

“That is honest and candid.”

“Do you suppose if the Prince of Wales should succeed to the throne of
the United Kingdom, it would make any difference to me?”

“Give it up!” laughed the captain.

“He would be the king and I should still be the subject, just as John
Scoble is commander of the Maud and I am the mate. It is all the same
to me who is captain. I am informed by the cook that you have taken
possession of the vessel, and put the captain in irons, locking him up
in my stateroom.”

“The cook informed you correctly.”

“All right. I am not such a fool as Scoble, who has been jawing all day
with my particular friend, Louis Belgrave, whose acquaintance I had the
honor to make at Von Blonk Park. As to kidnapping you, my dear Captain
Ringgold, I had not the least intention of doing anything of the sort.
I would have given ten shillings out of my own pocket to get rid of
you and the other young gentleman, when I saw you at the station. In a
word, Captain Scoble did not want you.”

“At the same time I am glad to be here for Louis’s sake.”

“I dare say. If you are now the captain, I am ready to swear allegiance
to the powers that be.” The mate resigned the wheel to the captain.




CHAPTER XVII

A CHANGE OF MASTERS


Louis was not a little astonished at the ready yielding of Mr. Frinks
to the new order of things on board of the Maud, for he had expected
serious opposition from him, and that he would carry it even to
fighting for Scoble. If he was disposed to resist the new masters
of the vessel, probably the physique of Captain Ringgold was not
encouraging to him. The shipmaster took the wheel, and immediately gave
his whole attention to the management of the vessel.

“I suppose you have no further use for me on deck,” said Mr. Frinks,
after he had given up the wheel. “I don’t know what course you intend
to take, but, with your permission, I will go down into the cabin.”

“I should be very sorry to incommode so amiable a gentleman, but you
will oblige me by remaining on deck,” replied the captain. “You are
acquainted with the Maud, and I am not; I may need your counsel and
assistance.”

“I did not suppose you would require anything of such a lubber as I
am,” replied the mate.

“On the contrary, I must ask you to continue to discharge the duties of
mate. It is possible that the men forward may not be inclined to obey
me; and I should prefer to escape the necessity of disciplining them
into obedience, though I feel perfectly confident that I can do it.”

“As I said, Captain Ringgold, it makes no difference to me who is
captain of the Maud. I am a soldier of fortune; I have no home on the
wide earth, no place to lay my head; and I had as lief go one way as
another. I am entirely at your service, and ready to obey orders in all
matters relating to the schooner.”

“All right, Mr. Frinks, and we will be friends.”

“I shall serve you faithfully as long as I remain on the deck of the
Maud; and I think you will have no trouble whatever with the men
forward, especially if you issue your orders through me.”

“Did it occur to you, Mr. Frinks, while you were at the wheel, that
this vessel is not making above two knots an hour?” asked the captain.

“I don’t think she is doing as much as that, Captain,” replied the
mate, laughing. “When she has a leading wind she does very well; but on
the wind she is not good for much, especially when she is reefed down
as she is now.”

“It seems to me that you chose a very bad time to carry out your little
scheme, for you could not help seeing that a north-easter was coming
up.”

“The fact is, as I suggested before, that we got more than we bargained
for when you and that youngster you call Flix came on board. We could
easily have taken care of Mr. Belgrave and his amiable mother, and
anchored under a lee; but with so many of you it was not prudent to
remain too near the shore.”

“Precisely so.”

“I thought I had taken good care of you when I put the hatches on
which confined your peregrinations to the lower hold. I don’t exactly
understand yet how you happened to be in the cabin.”

“Louis Belgrave can explain that to you in full when you have time to
listen to him, for he took the liberty to take off the hatches and
let us both out like a Christian as he is. But, Mr. Frinks, I am not
disposed to keep on this tack any longer, for we are getting it worse
and worse every minute.”

“You have the wheel, and all hands will obey your orders, so that you
can go where you please, Captain,” replied Frinks.

“Ready about!” shouted Captain Ringgold. “Stand by the jib-sheet!”

The mate went forward and placed the hands at the jib-sheet. The
helmsman put the wheel over, and the dull sailer threw her head slowly
up into the wind, leaping and rolling and bouncing about like a log.
But she came about after a while, and her jib began to draw on the
starboard tack. The mainsail went over on the traveller, and the men
forward attended to the fore-sheet.

Captain Ringgold laid a course due west, which indicated that he
intended to return to the bay, or some point near it, from which the
vessel had departed in the forenoon.

“Ease off the jib-sheet!” shouted the new captain.

“Ease off the jib-sheet!” repeated the mate, to assure the master that
his order was understood; and it was promptly obeyed.

“Now ease off the fore-sheets!” continued the captain.

Frinks could see from the course of the schooner what was required; and
if he had sworn allegiance to the present commander of the craft, he
could not have discharged his duty more promptly and faithfully.

“Send a couple of hands aft!” called the captain; and the mate came
himself with one of the hands. “Ease off the main-sheet!”

After the change in the course, the Maud took the wind on the starboard
quarter, and behaved much better than before, though she still pitched
and rolled violently in the heavy sea. With two reefs in her principal
sails, and with the stormy sea, her progress through the water was
anything but rapid. The mate had gone forward, and he was now talking
with the two sailors on the forecastle, which was no longer washed by
the head sea.

“Flix, you are not much of a sailor, I dare say,” said Captain
Ringgold, calling the Milesian to him.

“Not a bit of it, sir; I don’t know the fore to’ gallant bobstay from
main top-mast hatchway,” replied Felix.

“Then your education has been neglected. I want you to go forward and
ascertain what the mate and the hands are talking about; for they may
be hatching up treason, and it is well to be on the lookout, though I
don’t think the mate means mischief,” continued the captain.

“It don’t take much of a sailor to do the like o’ that,” replied Felix,
as he started to go forward, clinging to the rail to enable him to
keep on his feet.

“Do it in a mild and gentlemanly way, and don’t let the mate understand
that you are listening to them,” added the captain.

Felix sauntered as leisurely forward as the motion of the schooner
would permit, keeping his gaze fixed on the shore, which was Rockaway
Beach, distant about two miles. He took a seat on the windlass, where
he could hear all that was said, if anything was said, and continued
to gaze at whatever was to be seen. Of course his presence prevented
the mate and the men from hatching up any treason; and this was the
principal object of the new commander in sending him there.

“I don’t know where you are going, Captain Ringgold; but it is all
right, wherever you go,” said Louis, who was clinging to the after part
of the cabin skylight for support.

“We are bound to the Great Kills, which is the bay from which we sailed
this forenoon,” replied the captain. “That is just about twenty miles
from where we are. The Maud is not making more than six knots an hour,
and we can’t make the Kills till after eight o’clock. It will be low
tide then and very dark in this weather; and I am not a pilot in the
inside waters. It is rather unfortunate; but there is no help for it.
We may have to stay there all night; and Uncle Moses will have fits
over your absence.”

“I thought you would go directly up to New York, where we could hand
Scoble over to the police at once,” added Louis.

“That is just what I would do if it were possible; but the wind is now
blowing a smart gale. It is likely to be a great deal worse before it
is any better. You see, after we made The Narrows, it would be a dead
beat to windward for about ten miles, and we never could do it in the
world in this old tub.”

“I understand now.”

“It occurs to me, Louis, that it is about suppertime; and we had better
attend to that matter before dark,” suggested Captain Ringgold.

“I see that Bickling is in the galley; I have been keeping an eye on
him, for I did not know but he might take it into his head to let
Scoble out of his prison, and take off his bracelets,” replied Louis.
“I will tell him to get supper at once;” and he made his way to the
galley.

The cook was ready to attend to his duties, and he promised to “’ave
some ’am and heggs” ready in a very short time. Louis went below, and
after listening at the door of Scoble’s prison, hearing nothing to
excite alarm, he knocked at the door of his mother’s room.

“I am so glad to see you!” exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave when she saw her
son. “Have you been hurt?”

“No, mother; no one has been hurt, and we are in full possession of the
vessel, which is now headed back to the place from which we started
this forenoon,” replied Louis, after his mother had embraced him. “We
are all right now, and you have nothing whatever to fear. We may have
to stay all night on board of the vessel; but you can sleep very well
in your berth, and some of us will keep watch all night.”

“I do hope we shall get home without any more trouble. I shall not
sleep a wink on board of this vessel, and I wish there was some way to
get ashore,” added Mrs. Belgrave.

“Perhaps there will be; we will see when we get into the bay, where we
shall have smooth water. But how do you feel, mother?”

“Very well indeed. I should like a cup of tea and some toast, if I
could get them.”

“We are going to have supper pretty soon, and I want you to eat all you
can, for it will do you good.”

Bickling was already setting the table in the cabin, and putting on the
“fiddles,” which the motion of the vessel rendered necessary, for the
dishes would hardly have stayed on the table. In less than half an hour
the meal was ready, with tea and toast in addition to the heavier fare
the cook had promised to provide. Louis seated his mother, and then
went on deck to call Captain Ringgold, who summoned the mate to take
the helm, though Felix was left to keep watch of him and the men. The
Milesian stationed himself at the companion-way, where he could call
the captain and Louis if anything went wrong; and he kept one hand on
the revolver in his right hip-pocket, perhaps rather anxious for an
opportunity to use it.

Mrs. Belgrave had so far recovered her appetite that she could eat
ham and eggs as well as toast, and made a very satisfactory meal. The
violent emotion to which she had been subjected seemed to have been a
panacea for her sea-sickness. The captain praised the ham, and praised
the cooking, very much to the satisfaction of Bickling, and testified
more fully to his pleasure by making a very hearty meal. He returned to
the deck a happy man in his present condition, and sent the mate down
for his supper. Louis remained below while Frinks and Felix ate their
rations, and they imitated the example of the captain in doing ample
justice to the fare.

Louis gave the cook two ten-dollar pieces, and asked him to feed the
men before the mast as well as he had those in the cabin; but the
difficult business of the hour was to feed Captain Scoble, for the
young millionaire would not permit him to be deprived of his supper as
the captain suggested.

The shipmaster attended to this duty himself after the mate had
returned to the deck. The sailors were invited to the cabin one at a
time for their supper, and a fresh supply of ham and eggs had been
provided by the cook. The captain took off the handcuffs of Scoble,
who had become quite mild and tractable under the discipline of
confinement, and he ate his supper as though he enjoyed it. In fact,
everything on board seemed to be pleasant.

It was half-past eight in the evening when the Maud ran into the bay.
It was very dark; and as soon as Captain Ringgold got the schooner
under a lee, the anchor was let go, and the voyage was at an end.




CHAPTER XVIII

SOME SIGNS OF TREACHERY


The sails of the Maud were furled, and the vessel rested as easily
under the lee of a sort of promontory, which rose up from the marsh,
as though a gale were not raging outside of it. Captain Ringgold would
have proceeded to the town from which they had embarked in the forenoon
if the tide had not been entirely down; but he was not familiar with
the navigation of the bay, and he would not run the risk of getting
aground in the middle of it.

Mrs. Belgrave declared that she was very comfortable in her stateroom;
but she very much preferred to go on shore, even at the expense of some
hardship from the weather, and the perils of the marshes. Louis desired
to gratify her if it were possible. One of the men had been left on
deck as an anchor watch, and the captain and mate had seated themselves
in the cabin.

“I don’t think you would have any trouble at all in getting up to the
town,” interposed Mr. Frinks, when he had heard the conversation of the
passengers.

“Do you mean to go ashore here and walk up?” asked the captain.

“It can’t be much over a mile,” replied the mate.

“But we may come to creeks and mud-holes we cannot cross with a lady,”
suggested the shipmaster.

“I think not, for I got some idea of the locality when we came into the
bay, and while we lay at anchor here for about two days,” added Frinks.
“There is something that looks like a creek or the mouth of a river
over to the northward of us; but we can land the lady beyond that with
the jolly-boat.”

“I’ll tell you what we will do,” said Captain Ringgold suddenly and
loudly, as though a satisfactory idea had come to his mind. “We will
take the boat and go on a little exploring expedition, for I don’t
believe in taking Mrs. Belgrave out on a night like this without
knowing where we are going to fetch up. This bay is big enough to be
well shaken up in a gale like this; and I think we had better feel our
way before we expose her to anything in the way of danger.”

“I am not afraid, Captain Ringgold,” protested Mrs. Belgrave. “It was
not very rough when we went out of the bay this forenoon.”

“Very true, madam; but it blows more than four times as hard now as it
did then,” added the shipmaster. “Perhaps we had better wait a couple
of hours or so, for the tide is dead low now, and by that time we shall
have water enough to get about in the jolly-boat, and perhaps in the
schooner. There is a good channel up to the town if we only knew where
it was; but it is very crooked, I remember, for I was in here in a
schooner twenty years ago.”

“I think that it is a capital idea to explore the bay to the northward
of us; and I am confident we can land on that creek not more than half
a mile from the anchorage,” said Frinks with considerable enthusiasm,
as though he desired to do all he could to comply with the wishes of
the lady passenger. “I will go with you, and do what I can to assist,
for I know something about the bay from my stay here.”

This plan was agreed upon, and Louis was very glad to have the mate
accompany the exploring expedition, for he regarded him as the only
dangerous man at liberty on board the Maud, and he could easily be kept
under control in the boat, or on the desolate shore of the bay at the
north, though it had a town on the west side, whose cheerful lights
could be seen from the deck of the schooner.

Louis advised his mother to lie down in her berth and sleep a part of
the night, for they could not be ready to take her ashore for at least
three hours. She complied with his request, rather to please him than
because she expected to sleep under the present circumstances. Felix
had already gone to sleep on one of the divans under the berths, and
Louis was inclined to follow his example. He went on deck with the
captain to take a more careful survey of the surroundings, so far as
they could make them out in the gloom of the night.

“I suppose there is no danger in leaving mother on board while we go on
this exploring expedition,” said Louis, after they had peered into the
darkness for a while without being able to make out anything.

“I don’t think there is; if there were any danger I certainly would not
leave her,” replied Captain Ringgold. “Scoble can do no mischief in his
present condition, and we are to take Frinks with us. The mate seems
to be in a very friendly mood towards us, and I don’t believe we have
anything to apprehend from him.”

“Certainly not, if we take him with us,” added Louis. “Who is to go in
the boat besides the mate?”

“You and I must go, for in spite of appearances Frinks may be tricky
and make trouble when we get away from the vessel, and are buried in
the darkness. The safest way is to trust no one; and that is just what
we will do.”

“That is the better way.”

“We take Frinks with us, and both of us have revolvers within reach
of our hands on the instant. Of course Scoble can do nothing with his
wrists ironed behind him, and made fast to the front of the berth. We
shall leave Felix on board, and we are absolutely sure that he will be
faithful.”

“There is no possibility of a doubt so far as he is concerned,” replied
Louis heartily.

“One thing more, my boy. We have to dispose of Scoble, and what are
we to do with him? No officer in Southfield would arrest him on your
statement or mine; and it would not be right for any one to do so.
Uncle Moses, you say, has one warrant, and Mr. Woolridge has the
other. One of us must go home with your mother, and that will weaken
our force. I have not much doubt a tug can be had in the town, and if
we find a practicable way to get there over the marshes, one of us
had better go and obtain it, and at the same time telegraph to Squire
Scarburn to send an officer with the warrant to make the arrest. As I
am the stronger man of the two for duty on board, you had better attend
to this duty.”

“Of course I am willing to do anything I can to get the villain inside
of a prison,” added Louis.

Captain Ringgold had no intention to take a nap, and for an hour
longer he discussed the situation and the plan, for Louis found
himself wide awake again as soon as the safety of his mother was under
consideration. There was nothing to be seen in any direction but the
lights in the town, which were growing less and less as the evening
advanced; and vessels going into New York, if there were any on such a
stormy night, did not go so far to the southward as the entrance to the
bay.

“We left Felix asleep in the cabin,” said the captain, after they had
been on deck at least an hour and a half. “Perhaps you had better go
below and see that all is well.”

“I will do so,” replied Louis, as he went to the companion-way.

Felix was still fast asleep on one divan near the door of Mrs.
Belgrave’s room, and Bickling was apparently in the same condition on
the one just forward of the stateroom in which Scoble was confined. If
Louis had hurried his steps he might have seen Frinks leap hastily into
the berth next aft the prison room. By the time the young man reached
a point abreast of the late captain’s wooden cell, the mate had buried
himself in the bedclothes of the berth abaft the cell, and was snoring
like a trooper, so that Louis could have no doubt from the sounds that
reached his ears as he passed that the occupant of the bunk was sound
asleep. In fact, it appeared to be a very sleepy time in the cabin,
though appearances are sometimes very deceitful.

When Louis returned to the deck he found the captain heaving a hand
lead in the waist of the vessel; and he had done it before at the bow
and stern. The messenger to the cabin reported upon the state of things
there, and it was entirely satisfactory to the shipmaster.

“It is about eleven o’clock, Louis, and the tide has made about two
feet since we anchored here. It is about time for us to get off on the
exploring expedition,” said Captain Ringgold as Louis joined him.

“You have not said yet who is going in the boat, captain. Do we take
any one of the Maud’s crew except the mate?” asked the young man.

“The mate and I can pull the boat, and you can look out ahead, though I
do not object to another, provided it is not Felix, who must keep guard
over your mother,” replied the captain, as he led the way to the cabin
to call the mate.

On the stairs they encountered Bickling, who put his hand on Louis’s
shoulder in a rather mysterious manner, and led him to the deck again,
while the captain continued on his way down the stairs.

“You are going away in the boat,” said he, as he halted near the
companion. “Will you take me with you? I can be of service to you.”

The cook seemed to be in mortal terror of something, and the hand he
laid upon Louis’s shoulder trembled, and his manner was very strange.

“Why do you wish to go in the boat, Bickling?” asked Louis.

“Which it is very kind you ’ave been to me, and”--

At that moment Frinks rushed upon deck from the companion-way, closely
followed by Captain Ringgold.

“I hope I have not delayed the expedition; but I was tired and dropped
asleep in my berth, and lost all idea of what was going on,” said the
mate, as the captain joined him.

The cook could not say another word, so terrified was he at the
appearance of Frinks, or rather when he heard his voice near him, for
he could not see him in the darkness. The two men forward were ordered
to bring the boat up to the gangway; and when the mate discovered the
cook, he told him to assist them. In a few moments the boat was ready
for use. Frinks seemed to be in a great hurry, and got into it at once.

“I should like to have Bickling go with us, captain,” said Louis, as
the shipmaster was about to follow the mate.

“We will take the cook with us, if you don’t object, Mr. Frinks,” added
the captain.

“I don’t object; and I think we can find enough for him to do.
Bickling! In the boat!” replied the mate.

But Louis was not quite ready to go, and said so to those in the boat.
Then he rushed down into the cabin, where he found Felix still fast
asleep on the divan. He roused him at once, and then charged him in the
most earnest manner not to fall asleep while the boat was absent. Felix
promised faithfully to keep awake, and declared that he would keep on
his feet all the time till the boat returned. Louis, satisfied that he
would keep his promise, went on deck, and took his place in the boat.

Frinks shoved her off, and the craft went off into the darkness.
Bickling had been put at one oar while the mate pulled the other. The
captain was to occupy the stern sheets, and Louis took his place in
the bow as the lookout, for he was supposed to have the sharpest eyes.
Keeping the lights of the town, rather more than a mile distant, on the
port hand, the boat went to the northward. At the mate’s suggestion,
the course was made more to the westward, to enable them to find the
creek or river he had seen before.

There was plenty of water for the boat, and most of the way for the
schooner, for the captain had brought the hand lead with him, and was
taking the soundings at frequent intervals. In less than half an hour
Louis reported that he could make out the opening in the land leading
into the creek. The boat presently made a landing, and Louis and the
captain leaped ashore, followed by Bickling, to whom no order to that
effect was given.

“If you find a way to the town that suits you, come back as quick as
possible, and we will bring off the lady,” said Frinks.

The other three were no sooner ashore than Frinks pulled with all his
might for the schooner.

[Illustration: “COME ASHORE AT ONCE! IF YOU DON’T I’LL FIRE UPON YOU!”
Page 147.]




CHAPTER XIX

EUCHRED ON THE SHORE


Captain Ringgold and Louis Belgrave did not at once understand what
Frinks was doing, for the boat could hardly be seen in the gloom of
the dark and stormy night. They heard the noise made in getting away
from the shore, and then the dip of the oars in the water. The young
millionaire was the first to suspect that something was wrong, but he
did not feel well enough assured of it to say anything, for he was
strongly opposed to becoming a prophet of evil under any circumstances;
but he halted in the march which had already been begun in the
direction of the town.

The young man stopped short a few rods from the shore, and listened
with all his ears for any sounds which would afford him further
information, while the shipmaster and the cook continued on their way.
He could plainly hear the hurried dip of oars, and the rattle of the
looms in the thole-pins. Beyond a doubt there was a movement of some
kind on the part of the mate, and Louis rushed in hot haste to the bank
of the creek, for there were signs of treachery on the part of the
Maud’s officer in the boat.

“Halloo! Hallo! Mr. Frinks!” he shouted at the top of his lungs, which
were not weakened by consumptive tendencies.

“On shore!” replied the mate, as he ceased rowing.

“What are you about, Mr. Frinks?” demanded Louis.

The boat was already too far off for an easy going conversation; but if
the mate condescended to explain his movement, it might do something to
restore the young man’s confidence.

“I am going to look along the shore towards the town to see if there is
another creek you will have to cross, and to ferry you over if I should
find one,” answered Frinks, still laying on his oars.

“What is the matter, Louis?” asked Captain Ringgold, hastily returning
to the shore, followed by Bickling.

“I don’t know that anything is the matter,” replied Louis. “The mate
shoved off in the boat, and says he is going towards the town to see if
there is another creek, in order to ferry us across it if there should
be one.”

“I don’t quite like the looks of that movement, and I am decidedly in
favor of keeping the mate on shore with us. If a boat-keeper is needed,
let the cook attend to that duty,” replied the captain; and his tones
indicated that he also discovered some signs of treachery.

“All right; order him to bring the boat back to the shore, captain,”
answered Louis.

“In the boat!” shouted the shipmaster.

“On shore!” replied Frinks. “What do you want now?”

There was something in the tone of the mate, and in the little word
“now” with which he ended his sentence, that indicated a sort of
contempt for the one who hailed him.

“Bring the boat to the shore!” added Captain Ringgold, loud enough to
be heard half-way across the bay.

“Very well, captain! I will come ashore as soon as I have taken a look
across this point of land,” answered Frinks; and Louis thought there
was something of the raillery with which he had mixed up his speeches
when he explained in what manner he had made the capture of the party
in the forenoon; in other words there was something like triumph in his
tones.

“Come ashore at once!” cried the captain, fortified in his suspicion
that all was not right by the manner of the mate.

“All right! You wait till I come!” was the response of Frinks.

At the same moment the rattle of the oars and the dip of them in the
water were heard, and it was evident that the treacherous mate was
pulling with all his might away from the spot where he had landed his
late companions in the boat.

“Come ashore at once! If you don’t I will fire upon you!” yelled the
captain, as he drew one of the large revolvers from his pocket.

“Fire away!” returned Frinks in tones of derision, mingled with a
chuckling laugh that fully indicated the treason of the mate.

Captain Ringgold got the direction of the boat as well as he could
from the sounds that came from it, and then discharged his revolver,
which he had loaded in the steerage when the pair of weapons were given
to him.

“Good!” shouted the mate contemptuously.

The shipmaster, using all the care the situation permitted, fired
again; but it was very much like shooting at the moon, so far as the
chances of hitting were concerned. The darkness was impenetrable, and
the shipmaster had nothing to guide his aim but the sounds from the
boat.

“Good again!” returned Frinks derisively, and the sound of his voice
grew less distinct as he increased his distance from the shore.

“No use to fire at him any more, captain,” replied Louis in a tone of
utter despondency, as he realized that the battle, according to present
appearances, was utterly lost.

But the captain continued to fire until he had discharged all the
barrels in his two pistols. The mate could hear the reports, and
he responded to every one of them in tones of the utmost contempt,
as though he was enjoying the chagrin of the young millionaire and
his stalwart companion. He had certainly won the victory again over
the young Parkite, and he appeared from his tones to be enjoying it
heartily.

“There is a light off there now, and it must be on board of the Maud,”
said the captain, as he peered through the gloom in the direction from
which they had come in the boat. “All I have to say, Louis, is that we
have been euchred!”

“So it appears,” added the young man bitterly. “And my mother is
on board of that craft still, with no one to protect her from the
wiles of that villain. I am afraid I have been stupid in trusting to
appearances. We had Scoble bound hand and foot, and we brought the mate
off with us. I ought not to have believed a word that oily-tongued
rascal uttered.”

“It is no use to groan over it, my boy; we must act,” added the
shipmaster, evidently ashamed that he had permitted himself to be
overreached, but not so utterly cast down as his young companion, as he
had less reason to be.

“What can we do?” demanded Louis, suddenly rousing himself from his
despondency.

“Oh, I don’t give it up yet, my boy! All we can do is to make our way
to the town, procure a tug-boat, and give chase to the schooner. I
think we have taken away all the firearms there were on board of her,
and with such officers as we can procure in Southfield, where I am
somewhat acquainted, we may yet be able to arrest the villain, and save
your mother from further persecution. I feel that I am somewhat to
blame for the accident which has happened to us, and I pledge you all
my time, and all my fortune, which is nothing near as large as yours,
to follow this Scoble all over the world if necessary, till we have him
behind the iron bars,” continued Captain Ringgold with a heartiness
that made Louis his friend for life.

“Whatever fortune I have is nothing compared with the safety and
happiness of my mother, and I would spend every dollar of it, if my
trustee will allow me to do so, to redeem her from the power and
possession of John Scoble,” said Louis earnestly.

His million and a half, as that was the amount of it in round numbers,
seemed like a bagatelle to him at the present moment, for he could
neither pay it out nor pledge it to procure the return of his mother to
her new home at the Park. But the captain did not despair of being able
to accomplish something in the pursuit of the villain who had again
brought grief and shame to those it had once been his duty to protect.

“It is certainly the time for action, as you say, Captain Ringgold; but
what shall we do? What can we do?” he demanded.

“That is the question to be immediately settled,” replied the captain,
looking about him as if to obtain further information that would assist
him in taking some action. “This creek is too wide to be crossed
without a boat; and there seems not to be even a punt about here.”

“What good would it do to cross the creek, if we could do so?” asked
Louis.

“Perhaps none. If we could get over to the hill that shelters the
vessel from the gale, we should still be too far from the Maud even
to shoot those on board of her; and we could not get on board of her
without a boat. It is no use to look in that direction,” was the
captain’s conclusion. “The only thing we can do is to make our way over
to Southfield; and I hope we shall find a tug-boat there, though it is
by no means certain. It is plain enough to me now that Frinks knew more
about this bay than he pretended, for he made sure to land us this
side of the creek so that we could not get near the Maud again. He has
managed his case very well.”

“That light was not exhibited on the Maud when we left her,” suggested
Louis.

“It was not; but the mate is expected to come back, and the light is
hoisted to enable him to make the quickest time on his return. I have
no doubt Captain Scoble will put to sea the moment he is on board. I
dare say the reefed sails are set, and the anchor hove short by this
time.”

“We have seen that the Maud can’t do much in the way of sailing in
such a heavy sea, and with the wind nearly ahead of her,” added Louis,
taking comfort from the reflection.

“That is very true, my lad; but the ocean is almost boundless, and
it is very hard to find a vessel, even a slow sailer, on its vast
expanse,” replied the captain. “I was an ensign in the navy during the
last part of the Rebellion, and my ship was looking for months for the
Alabama; but we did not find her. Scoble may not sail before morning,
and we may get a steamer on his track by that time. But we can’t waste
any more time in talking about the matter; let us move towards the
town.”

Captain Ringgold led the way, and Louis kept at his side. Bickling
came up behind them. He had been forgotten in the excitement of the
stirring event of the evening; and then, for the first time, the young
man recalled the application of the cook to be taken in the boat with
him. He called him to his side, for they were walking over a salt marsh
which was dry enough at that stage of the tide, and there was room
enough for all of them to march abreast.

“Why did you desire to go in the boat with me, Bickling?” asked Louis,
in opening his inquiry.

“You have been very kind to me, sir, which I appreciate a good friend,
sir, and I wanted to be of some service to you, which I am afraid it is
too late now,” replied the cook.

“Then, why didn’t you speak out before?” demanded the young man
indignantly.

“Which I couldn’t do it, sir, though I would gladly ’ave done it,
sir,” protested the man, who even now seemed to be frightened about
something, though he had no reason to fear his present companions.

“Why couldn’t you do it? You had a tongue in your head!” added Louis
very warmly, for it was clear to him that the cook knew something about
the plot which had just been sprung upon them.

“I ’ave to mind my own business, sir, and I can’t hafford to meddle
with hother people’s haffairs, which it is just as plain to you, sir,
as it is to me, sir, who am a poor man,” replied Bickling. “I tried to
do something for you, sir, but I failed.”

Louis thought that he was perhaps unjust to the poor man, and softened
his manner.




CHAPTER XX

IN PURSUIT OF THE MAUD


Louis Belgrave recalled the circumstances under which Bickling had
applied to him for permission to go in the boat with the exploring
expedition. He had asked to be taken with the young man, saying that he
could be of service to him. Before he could say anything more the mate
came on deck, and the cook seemed to be in mortal terror of him, for he
had noticed the fright of the fellow at the moment.

It did not occur to Louis at the time that anything could be wrong in
the arrangements for visiting the shore; but he realized now that the
cook had discovered some signs of treachery on the part of Frinks; but
his fears prevented him from uttering a word.

“It looks now as though you knew something about the trick which has
been played upon us, Bickling,” continued Louis, more gentle in his
manner than before.

“Which I didn’t know anything at all about it, sir, but which I thought
there was something wrong goin’ on in the cabin, sir, and I did not
know what,” pleaded Bickling.

“I am sorry you did not speak to me.”

“Which I should ’ave done if I ’ad known what was hup, sir.”

Though Louis had given the cook twenty-five dollars, rather for the
service he rendered him and his party as cook than for any other
reason, he could not feel that he had any claim upon the fidelity of
the man. He had made an advance towards telling what he knew; but he
was sadly wanting in pluck, and he had failed, so that the intention
must be taken for the deed.

“Did you know that it was the mate’s purpose to abandon us on the
shore, and return to the schooner?” asked Louis.

“Which I hope to die when my time comes, sir, if I ’ad the smallest
idea of what he was goin’ to do, sir!” protested the cook vehemently.
“If I ’ad, sir, I wouldn’t ’ave let you and the captain go in the boat.
I thought I’d ’ave a chance to tell you what little I knew when you got
to the shore. If I ’ad let Mr. Frinks know what I was tellin’ you, that
would have spoiled, the ’ole, and the mate would have killed me dead on
the spot, sir.”

“That is sensible, Louis,” interposed the captain. “He could not afford
to blow on the mate; it was not safe for him to do so, as he did not
belong on our side of the question.”

“Which the young gentleman has been very kind to me, and I was glad to
do him a good turn if I could; and I am very sorry I could not, sir,
which it is all I can say, sir,” pleaded the cook.

“He meant right, Louis, and it is a pity he had not a small portion of
your pluck,” added the captain.

“Now tell me what you did know, Bickling,” continued Louis.

“I was trying to get to sleep, sir, on one of the sofas, when I ’eard a
noise near the mate’s room. I looked that way, sir, but I did not move,
and the mate thought I was asleep, no doubt. He unlocked the door of
the stateroom, for he ’ad an extra key, and went in, sir. He shut the
door after him; and then I heard him and the captain talking together.”

“Could you make out what they said?” asked Louis, not a little excited
at the revelation of the cook.

“Not much of it, sir, which they did not talk out very loud, sir.
They were to get possession of the vessel, but ’ow it was to be done,
I did not ’ear, sir. I put my hear to the partition, and tried ’ard
to understand what they said, sir. By this time I reckon they ’ad
fixed the plan to get the vessel; and I heard Captain Farrongate, or
whatsoever his name might be, say that he should go to Bermuda, sir,
while the friends of the lady would go to Southampton to look for her,
sir. That is all, sir, and every syllable I could make out, sir.”

The man had some education, and he did not mangle his h’s very badly
unless he became very much excited. It was easy enough to see that he
was one of those men of no force of character that are often met in
the world, but are at the same time filled with good intentions. The
plot to leave Louis and the captain on the shore to the westward of the
creek, the cook insisted, had not been mentioned in his hearing. He had
made out the last part of the conversation, and that certainly was very
important as a guide to future movements.

During this narration the trio had been walking at a tolerably rapid
pace towards the town, finding a footbridge over the creek, and had
accomplished a good part of the distance. It was midnight, and most of
the lights in the houses had been extinguished. Another quarter of an
hour brought them to the few wharves in the place, for the party had
kept near the shore of the bay all the way from the creek.

With the most intense interest on the part of Louis, they passed from
one pier to another, till they had gone beyond the water front of
the town. Not a steamer of any kind was there; no tug-boat had taken
shelter from the storm within the bay, so far as they could discover.
There was not a light to be seen on the waters of the bay, and the few
vessels in port were all made fast to the wharves, where they were
partially sheltered from the violence of the gale.

With the midnight hour came a change in the aspect of the weather,
which Captain Ringgold was the first to observe. The wind was hauling
to the westward, and it had been what he called a “dry storm.” He was
confident that the sun would rise clear in the morning, for the wind
had already measurably abated.

“That will be favorable to Scoble in getting away,” suggested Louis.

“Yes, it will help him to get clear of the coast. Though the Maud is a
very bad sailer on the wind, she seemed to be a weatherly vessel, and I
have no doubt, by this time, she is pounding against the seas outside
of this bay. It is an awful pity that there is not a tug within hail of
us; but there is not, and I don’t see that we can help ourselves.”

“At this moment I wish I owned that steam-yacht you were telling me
about yesterday,” said Louis, who was musing sadly over the present
hopeless situation.

“I wish you did! If you did, there would be music very soon at the
heels of the Maud!” exclaimed Captain Ringgold. “But we must do
something, and not stand here all night.”

“I feel just as though all our hands were tied behind us, and I don’t
see that we can do anything,” added Louis.

“We must do something! I used to know a certain Captain Boulong who
lived in this town. He was the master of a coaster formerly, but I have
not seen him for two or three years.”

“Do you know his first name, captain?”

“I do; for he owed me a note, which he paid on time, and is an honest
man. Captain Drench Boulong was his name, and is still if he is in the
land of the living.”

“Then he is the mate of the Blanche, which is Mr. Woolridge’s yacht. I
know him very well,” replied Louis, who had heard the captain of the
yacht call him by his first name when they were in conversation.

“If he is the mate of a yacht he is not likely to be at home, though he
may be. I know where his house used to be, and I can find it. We will
look him up, for we have nothing better to do.”

Captain Ringgold led the way very directly to a small cottage on a side
street, where he knocked loud enough to wake all the sleepers within
a mile. The summons was effectual, for a man soon put his head out a
window on the lower floor, and demanded who was there.

“Captain Royal Ringgold,” replied the gentleman from the Park.

“And Louis Belgrave,” added the young man.

“I know you both, and what can I do for you?” asked Mr. Boulong, whose
voice was readily recognized.

“Is there a steamer of any sort to be had at this port?” inquired the
captain.

“Not unless some tug has put into the Kills for the night.”

“We could not find one. Is there any sort of a craft to be had?”

“Possibly,” replied the mate of the Blanche. “Wait a moment, and I will
let you in. Then we will see what can be done.”

A few minutes later Mr. Boulong opened the front door, and showed them
into his little parlor. In as few words as possible Louis explained the
situation, declaring that his mother was a prisoner on board of the
Maud, at that moment, without doubt, proceeding to sea. He told all it
was necessary to know in order to understand the unfortunate dilemma
of Mrs. Belgrave. The mate asked some questions, which were promptly
answered.

“We brought the Blanche down here yesterday to clean her bottom,
and she is at anchor just below the town, where there is a beach. I
suppose you know that Captain Alcorn lives here as well as myself,
Louis?” added Mr. Boulong. “As you and your mother are good friends
of our owner, he may be able to do something for you, as I am sure
Mr. Woolridge would if he were on the ground. If you will wait a few
minutes I will call up Captain Alcorn; or we will go to his house if
you like.”

The party attended the mate to the residence of the captain of the
yacht. He listened to the story of Louis, and then immediately
volunteered to pursue the Maud in the Blanche. They proceeded to the
beach off which the yacht was anchored, stopping at the railroad
station to send a night message to the owner. All the ship’s company
of the Blanche were on board; the captain hailed the vessel, and the
anchor watch sent a boat for the party. All hands were astir when the
party reached the vessel, and in a very short time she was under way,
standing towards the entrance to the inlet.

“You say the Maud is bound to Bermuda, Louis,” said Captain Alcorn,
after the yacht was fairly under way.

“That is what Bickling, the cook of the schooner, overheard Captain
Scoble say,” replied Louis.

“The wind has got round to the westward; it is fairing off, and we
shall have a good day,” continued the captain of the yacht. “As near
as I can make it out, the Maud must have got under way about half-past
eleven last night.”

“That was about the time,” added Captain Ringgold. “The wind has come
round so that she can turn out her reefs and make a fair wind of it.”

“Even if the Maud is bound to Bermuda, Captain, do you believe she will
lay her course from Sandy Hook to the islands?” asked Captain Alcorn.
“I believe you were in the navy in the war as well as myself, and you
know what it is to chase an enemy even with no more than four hours
the start of you.”

“I was telling Louis this morning that my ship followed the Alabama for
months without getting a sight at her,” replied the shipmaster.

“The Maud has the advantage over any man-of-war enemy, for she can
go into any port she pleases,” suggested Captain Alcorn. “This
Scoble, from what you have told me, is aware that his vessel is not
a high-flyer. After the mischief he has done, or the crime he has
committed, he may reasonably expect to be pursued by some fast craft.”

“But he is not aware that we know he is bound to Bermuda, and if we
chase him at all he will suppose we will follow him to Southampton,”
said Louis.

“Very true, and there is a good deal in that. Now, I believe the
fellow will skulk into some inlet or bay where there is little or
no population, and remain there concealed till he is satisfied any
pursuers are half-way across the Atlantic,” added the captain of the
yacht.

“I have considered that idea very faithfully, and I think it is a
reasonable supposition.”

“There are plenty of openings all along the New Jersey coast, and
probably Scoble went into one of them to have his vessel painted.”

The course was agreed upon between the two sea-captains.




CHAPTER XXI

FELIX McGAVONTY ON WATCH


Mrs. Belgrave was so exhausted by the violence of her emotion during
the day, and by her sea-sickness, that she fell asleep almost in spite
of herself; and she knew nothing of what transpired on board of the
Maud during the evening. Louis had put his ear to the door of her room
every time he went near it; but hearing no sound to indicate that she
was awake, he had refrained from disturbing her.

Felix McGavonty was wide awake as soon as Louis called him. He had gone
on deck with his crony, and watched the boat till it disappeared in
the darkness. Then he walked the deck for a time, and all was as still
as death. The single sailor who was doing duty as anchor watch was
fast asleep on the windlass, as the other was in the forecastle. The
Milesian had nothing to do and nothing to think about. Mrs. Belgrave
was in her stateroom, and though he was in charge of her, he could do
nothing in the line of the duty he had promised to perform. It was
chilly on deck, and he went below.

He had assured Louis that he would keep on his feet while he was
absent, and he was sure he should fall asleep if he even sat down on
one of the divans. Faithful to his promise he marched from one end
to the other of the cabin, occasionally listening at the door of
Mrs. Belgrave’s room, to satisfy himself that she did not require his
services; but he could hear nothing, for she was sleeping soundly after
the fatigue of the day, which had been a time of severe trial to her.

Sea-sickness is a curious malady, and no one can tell why it attacks
some, and is not developed in others. Louis had never had the slightest
symptom of it, while his mother was extremely susceptible to it. In a
family of eight seven were always sea-sick even in smooth water, while
one was always as well and hearty in the heaviest sea as on shore. The
recovery is sometimes as curious as the malady itself, for an exciting
event has been known to cure the patient immediately; and this appeared
to be the experience of Mrs. Belgrave.

The gallant captain from the Park had attended to her at the table, and
she had partaken heartily of ham and eggs as well as tea and toast for
her supper. Doubtless the meal she had taken did something to incline
her to sleep, and she had not heard a sound since early in the evening.
She knew nothing whatever of the exploring expedition which had left
the vessel at about eleven o’clock, when the tide had been coming in
for a couple of hours.

Felix marched back and forth in the cabin. He had a duty to perform;
but for the present it seemed to consist solely in keeping awake,
for he could neither see nor hear the lady over whose safety he was
watching. He was an active young man of sixteen, fond of excitement,
and especially of fun, and something more stirring than the duty of an
idle sentinel would have suited him better. When he had been engaged
with Louis in any of his enterprises, he had been the shadow of his
friend, willing and obedient, seeking no other glory than to serve him
faithfully. But he was now alone, though Louis was not far off, and he
felt a sense of responsibility with which he had rarely been burdened.

After his return from his promenade on deck, Felix had made but a few
turns of his march in the cabin before something in the vicinity of
the prison stateroom of Scoble attracted his attention. He halted near
the after divan under the stern windows. He had a very great respect
and regard for the revolver he had carried in his hip-pocket for some
weeks, and he involuntarily grasped the handle of the dangerous weapon.
In the opposite pocket he had another and larger pistol of the same
kind, the one he had taken from the stateroom of the mate when sent by
Louis to search for arms.

Both of these weapons were loaded, and he was well supplied with
ammunition for each of them. But he remembered the solemn admonitions
of Uncle Moses and Louis, in which he had been prohibited in the most
positive manner from using the weapons he carried, unless it were to
save his own life, or that of Louis or his mother. The worthy squire
would not for some time assent to the carrying of these weapons, and
the possibility of an attack on the part of Scoble had alone changed
his refusal into a reluctant permission.

Felix was not a little startled when he saw the door of the captain’s
wooden cell slowly and cautiously opened. He had assisted in fastening
the arms of the prisoner behind him with a pair of handcuffs, and had
seen him made fast, with his ankles securely bound, to the front of
the berth. He had looked at Captain Ringgold when he locked the door
of the stateroom, and put the key in his pocket. He had observed the
embarkation of the exploring party, and was fully aware that Frinks had
been one of the four who went off into the darkness in the boat.

Under these circumstances if a ghost had accosted Felix as he made
his round in the cabin, he could hardly have been more startled and
mystified than he was when he saw the door of the starboard stateroom
opened. If he inherited any superstitions he had long since got rid
of them, under the instruction and raillery of the jovial lawyer with
whom he had lived from his earliest years. It did not occur to him,
therefore, that the door had been opened by any other than human agency.

He drew the smaller revolver from his pocket, and retreated to one side
of the cabin, where the curtains of one of the berths afforded him an
opportunity to conceal himself. He did not know who had opened the
door. Of the ship’s company the mate and the cook had gone with the
expedition to the shore, and only the two seamen remained on board,
with the prisoner in the stateroom. Felix felt his responsibility, and
he wished to be wise in his action if possible.

Behind the curtain of the berth he watched for further proceedings
on the part of the person who had opened the door. A lamp suspended
from a deck-beam over the table gave him abundant light. He was not
compelled to wait long for further developments, for presently he saw a
head thrust out at the door. It did not require more than a glance to
assure him that the head belonged to John Scoble, whom he had formerly
known for a couple of years under the name of Wade Farrongate.

How he had been able to remove the cords and the handcuffs with which
he had been secured was a mystery to Felix, for he had been fast asleep
on the divan while Frinks had made his visit to the room. It was Scoble
beyond the possibility of a doubt. He had often seen the man at the
Park, had often been to the old house where he lived; but he had no
acquaintance with him; in fact, he had hardly ever spoken to him in
his life. His presence in the cabin, and free from the bonds which
had confined him, made it painfully evident to him that the plans of
Captain Ringgold and Louis Belgrave had utterly failed.

No one but the mate could have released the captain of the Maud; and it
was plain enough to the Milesian that Mrs. Belgrave was again in the
clutches of him who still regarded her as his wife. He was sure that
something was about to happen, though it was possible that Louis and
the shipmaster had been able to outwit the mate who was with them in
the boat. He could only wait for further developments; and it was not
likely that he would have to wait a long time for them.

Felix felt that he was on board of the Maud as the guardian and
protector of Louis’s mother, and he felt the responsibility imposed
upon him to the deepest depths of his being. If Scoble attempted in any
manner to injure or meddle with Mrs. Belgrave, he was ready to use one
of the weapons in his pockets. In the face of both Scoble and the mate,
he realized his own weakness, and that it would be useless for him to
assume an offensive attitude. He could best watch over his charge by
keeping out of sight for the present, and until something occurred to
inform him more fully in regard to the actual situation on board. He
deemed it prudent to get into the berth behind the curtains of which he
had concealed himself. Looking out from behind the hangings in front of
him, he fixed his gaze upon the door of the prison stateroom. Scoble
was looking about the cabin, still showing only his head. Probably he
feared that Louis or Captain Ringgold was still on board. He continued
to explore the cabin with his eyes for some minutes, and it was evident
to the observer that he was also listening for sounds from the deck;
but there was nothing to be seen or heard.

The absence of all sights and sounds appeared to assure Scoble that
he had nothing to fear. He went back into the room for a short time,
and then came out into the cabin. He walked from one end of it to the
other, looking into all the berths, and then halted at the door of Mrs.
Belgrave’s room. Felix snored lustily while he was in the vicinity
of his berth, though Scoble doubtless knew that he was to be left on
board, and was not surprised when he discovered him apparently asleep
in the bunk.

Scoble listened at the door of the lady’s room; but she was still
asleep. Then he went to the pantry, took down one of the lanterns,
lighted it in the cabin, and then went on deck. Felix sprang from his
bed as soon as he had ascended the companion-way, and followed him as
far as the slide. He made the lantern fast in the main rigging, where
the party on shore had seen it. Felix readily understood that this was
a signal for the guidance of the mate on his return, and possibly to
assure him that his superior was on deck.

Scoble then went forward, roused the anchor watch, still asleep on the
windlass, and ordered him to call Bawkin, who was the man who had his
watch below. The captain came aft as soon as the other man appeared.
Felix retreated a few steps down the stairs; but returned to his
position as soon as he heard the voice of the master.

“Take off the stops of the mainsail!” said Scoble, in an ugly tone, as
though he was not in a happy frame of mind.

Felix was not sailor enough to know what this order meant, and did not
understand what a “stop” was; and it is often called a “gasket.” But in
a few minutes more he saw the men, the captain working with them, hoist
the mainsail, still reefed as when it had been furled. The foresail
was then set, and both of these sails were banging and pounding in the
gale, which could be felt to some extent behind the promontory.

Then the three men went forward, and the watcher followed them as
far as it was prudent for him to go. They manned the old-fashioned
windlass, and proceeded to heave up the anchor to a short stay, though
Felix did not comprehend the manœuvre in which they were engaged.

The hoisting of the foresail and the mainsail indicated that the
captain intended to go to sea again, and that he was ready to do so in
a hurry. These preparations convinced the Milesian that Louis and the
captain from the Park, as the latter expressed it, had been “euchred.”
As he understood it, the Maud was about to sail for Southampton again,
and without Louis or Captain Ringgold. He had all he wanted to think of
then, as though a hole had been made in the world, and he had dropped
out of it.

Captain Scoble seated himself on the companion, and Felix caught an
occasional glance at him. The watcher kept his eyes and his ears wide
open, and in less than half an hour he heard the dip and rattle of a
pair of oars. Something, that for which he had been waiting, was about
to happen. The boat came up to the gangway, and Frinks sprang to the
deck with the painter in his hand. The two men forward were called, and
ordered to hoist up the boat to the stern-davits.

“You come back alone, Mr. Frinks,” said the captain, in a dissatisfied
tone. “Where is Bickling?”

“I had to leave him on shore, or blow the whole thing,” replied the
mate.

“But we can’t get along without a cook,” added the captain sourly.

“We can get along as well as we did coming over,” returned Frinks.

“My wife is on board now.”

Frinks refused to say anything more, and insisted upon getting under
way at once.




CHAPTER XXII

MRS. BELGRAVE’S PROTECTOR


The mate and the captain of the Maud did not appear to agree together
any better than when Louis had listened to them in the interview in the
cabin. Scoble took the non-appearance of the cook very hardly, while
Frinks declined to say anything more about it. Without waiting for the
command of his superior, he ordered the men to trip the anchor, and
stand by the jib-halliards. The captain made no objection, and the
schooner was very soon under way.

Frinks took the wheel, and ordered the men to hoist the jib. Casting on
the port tack, he soon came about, and stood to the southward till the
vessel reached the opening. Then he laid an easterly course, and stood
out to sea. The gale had begun to moderate, though the sea was still
heavy. The Maud began to pitch and roll as she had before; but, as soon
as she was clear of the inlet, the sheets were started, and the vessel
was headed for Sandy Hook Light, about nine miles distant. This change
in the course gave her a free wind, and she behaved better than before.

The mate then called Stowin aft, and gave him the wheel. Instructing
the helmsman to keep well to windward of the light-ship, he intimated
to the captain that he was ready to talk with him in the cabin. Felix
immediately retreated when he heard this remark, and sprang into the
berth next aft of Mrs. Belgrave’s room, where he had pretended to be
asleep when the captain looked about the cabin. Whatever might be the
subject of the conversation, he was anxious to hear all that was said.

“What has become of that other boy, Captain Scoble?” asked the mate as
soon as they had descended the companion-way.

“He is fast asleep in one of the berths on the port side of the cabin,”
replied the captain. “He don’t amount to anything at all, and is as
stupid as an owl at noon-time.”

“Thank you for the compliment,” thought Felix. “Perhaps that is the
kind of fellow I had better be under present circumstances.”

The mate moved aft, apparently to satisfy himself that the intruder,
as both of them now regarded him, was not in condition to listen to
them. Felix opened his mouth partly, and snored musically enough to
have suited the corporosity of Uncle Moses. Frinks looked at him,
and listened to him, and left the berth evidently satisfied that the
occupant was not in condition to hear what was said.

“What shall we do with that young cub?” asked the captain, as the mate
seated himself opposite him at the table.

“I don’t know, unless we throw him overboard,” replied Frinks
indifferently. “Never mind him now; we have better fish to fry.”

“Everything seems to work right for those who have truth and honesty
on their side,” added Scoble.

“I don’t think so, for the devils have got the weather-gage of the
angels this time.”

“What do you mean by that?” demanded Scoble, scowling fiercely.

“I consider the two persons we have just tricked and got rid of as
honest and upright people, and I wish I were like them. I can’t say as
much as that of you or myself,” replied Frinks bluntly.

“I claim to be an honest and upright man,” added Scoble.

“Then the devil himself is one of that sort! But I don’t want to
discuss morality and piety with you, for you know nothing at all about
subjects of that sort.”

“Don’t you think I have a right to my wife?”

“I don’t know, and I don’t care, whether you have or not. I haven’t
anything to say about that. You agreed to pay me five hundred pounds if
I helped you out successfully with your business on this side of the
ocean. You were to pay me a hundred pounds when I got the lady and her
son on board of the Maud.”

“But her son is not here now,” pleaded the captain.

“He is not here because you wanted to get rid of him; and I got rid of
him, and the man with him, who was big enough to turn your cake into
dough. One hundred pounds now, Captain Scoble, or we quarrel on the
spot.”

“Don’t be in such a hurry, Frinks. I will pay you every shilling I
agreed to pay you,” said the captain.

“I won’t trust you a day or an hour. One hundred pounds now, or I will
anchor the Maud where she was an hour ago! That is all that need be
said about it. Pay, or lose every trick you have made!”

“But I can’t pay just now,” protested Scoble. “My wife occupies my
stateroom, and I cannot get at my money. I will give you the amount in
the morning, as soon as I can get possession of my room.”

“That won’t do!”

“Would you have me turn a lady out of her room at this time of night?”

“Why not? I don’t care anything about the woman,” replied Frinks,
rising from his seat at the table. “I will get her out of the room in
something less than long metre.”

“No, no, Frinks! Don’t disturb her, for I am going to make my peace
with her; and turning her out of her room would be a very bad
beginning,” argued Scoble, using his most persuasive tones. “It would
be little better than an outrage.”

“That is your affair, and not mine. One hundred pounds down, or we
quarrel! Choose for yourself.”

“If I can’t help myself, I can’t,” muttered the captain.

“You can’t, unless you want to go back to that bay. Of course you
expect to be pursued; for Louis Belgrave is not going to let you carry
off his mother without following you all over the world. The boy has
grit and pluck.”

“I have nothing to fear from him now.”

“Shall I tumble the lady out of that stateroom so that you can get my
money?” demanded the mate.

“I don’t see that I can help myself,” answered Scoble.

“But I can help myself!” shouted Felix McGavonty, leaping from his
berth, and placing himself in front of the lady’s door.

“Oh, you are alive, are you?” said Frinks, contemptuously.

“Faix, I’m aloive and I’m kicking!” replied Felix, with his hand on the
handle of his smaller revolver, with which he had practised a good deal
in a shooting gallery.

“Get out of my way, Paddy, or I shall pulverize that empty head of
yours,” added the mate, moving towards him with the evident intention
of laying hands on him.

“Hould your hoult where ye air!” said Felix, elevating the revolver,
and pointing it at the head of his assailant.

“That’s it, is it Paddy? Two of us can play at that game, and perhaps
one of us will get beaten at it,” replied Frinks, as he retreated
across the cabin and went into the stateroom he had formerly occupied.

Felix had intended to behave like a Milesian simpleton, assuming to
be witless and stupid; but the proposed plan to disturb Mrs. Belgrave
seemed to leave him no alternative but to stand up in her defence,
though he was sorry the occasion required him to take this step.

The mate was absent some time, and had lighted the gimbal-lamp in
his room. Felix kept his place in front of the door; but he fully
understood the object of Frinks in going to his stateroom, and he was
satisfied no shooting would be done in the cabin that night, however it
might be at some future time.

The mate spent at least a quarter of an hour in his room, and appeared
to be rummaging everything there; but he came out at last, and went to
the table where the captain was still seated.

“Have you a revolver, Captain Scoble?” he asked in a more subdued tone.

“I have two of them; but they are in a drawer in my stateroom,” replied
Scoble.

“I don’t know where mine is. I left it in one of the drawers, and
that and the box of cartridges are gone,” added Frinks, very much
discontented at the situation.

“I don’t see that you can do anything about it just now, Mr. Frinks,”
said the captain; and Felix thought he was pleased rather than
disconcerted at the inability of the mate to meet him on equal terms.
“It is time for us to go on deck and look out for the vessel.”

Both of them left the cabin, and mounted the companion-way. Restoring
his weapon to his pocket, Felix followed as far as the slide. He
could see the light-house and the light-ship from the position he had
taken. The sheets were started again, and the vessel was headed to the
southward.

“Whether we are bound to England or Bermuda, we may be overhauled
before daylight,” the listener heard the captain say. “I have studied
up this coast enough to know all about it; by daylight we shall be out
of sight of any craft that floats in these waters. When we come to
anchor we will put that young cub ashore.”

At this moment the listener heard a voice in the cabin, and looking
down discovered Mrs. Belgrave at her door. He did not like the task of
telling her that Louis and Captain Ringgold were no longer on board
of the schooner, and explaining the nature of the plot of which her
friends were the victims. But he could not shirk his duty, and he
hastened to the lady, who was calling her son by name.

“I am very sorry to say, Mrs. Belgrave, that Louis is not here,” said
he in tones of condolence.

“Not here? Where is he, Felix?” she asked with an expression of alarm
on her face.

“He and Captain Ringgold went on shore.”

“And left me here?” she gasped.

In gentle and sympathetic tones he told her what had occurred. The
mate, who had been friendly and had offered to assist them in finding
a suitable place to land the lady, had deceived them, and left them on
shore. Mrs. Belgrave, trembling with emotion and terror, asked him to
go into her room.

“What will become of me?” cried the poor woman, giving way to a flood
of tears.

“Don’t be afraid, Mrs. Belgrave; I will take as good care of you as
Louis could if he were here,” said Felix earnestly.

“What can you do against Scoble and the mate? I know you will do all
you can; but you will be powerless against these men,” sobbed Mrs.
Belgrave.

“Not quite; I got the better of them a little while ago when they were
going to turn you out of your room,” replied Felix, giving her the
details of the defence he had made.

“But you will not shoot them?” inquired she, fixing her gaze upon him.

“I should have fired if necessary; but I should have taken care to
disable them only.”

“But they would fire upon you, Felix.”

“They have nothing to fire with, for we took possession of all the
weapons on board this forenoon.”

Mrs. Belgrave suddenly braced herself up, and her companion was
surprised to see a smile on her face.

“Why am I weeping? I have been childish, and I am glad, as I ought to
be, instead of sorry that things have taken this turn,” said she a
moment later. “Louis is not here, and he is out of the reach of Scoble!
The villain will not harm me, and he has the wickedest intentions in
regard to my son. I am happy now.”

She looked as though she was really happy, and she begged Felix not to
expose himself to any danger as he left the room. Neither the captain
nor the mate came below again during the night; and at sunrise the Maud
was at anchor in a little inlet sixteen miles south of Sandy Hook.




CHAPTER XXIII

THE SEARCH FOR THE MAUD


The sun rose in a nearly clear sky, with a fresh breeze from the
north-west, as Captain Ringgold had predicted, and the change in the
direction of the wind had knocked down the sea. At sunrise the Blanche
was over thirty miles south-east of Sandy Hook, for this was the course
agreed upon by the two captains. They had no information whatever in
regard to the course or the movements of the Maud. On the one hand she
might have gone into some cove, bay, or inlet which she had visited
before; and on the other hand it was possible that she had laid her
course directly for Bermuda.

“The rascal knows that I am as much interested in this affair as though
Mrs. Belgrave were my own sister,” said the captain from the Park. “He
knows, or he ought to know, that neither Louis nor I will give up the
pursuit till we recover the lady.”

“I don’t know this Scoble, except as an exceedingly stupid skipper; but
of course he cannot be aware that any vessel is in pursuit of him,”
suggested Captain Alcorn.

“He cannot absolutely know that we are chasing him; but I feel
reasonably sure the fellow will expect to be pursued.”

“He knows something about the Kills where he anchored, and he may not
be willing to believe that we could find any craft in which to follow
him at once. It was only by a very lucky chance that the Blanche
happened to be where you found her. We can conjecture a dozen courses
Scoble may take, and any one of them is as likely to be correct as any
other,” continued the commander of the yacht.

“It must be admitted that we are entirely in the dark in regard to his
movements. He has laid his course for Bermuda, or he has gone into
some hiding-place on Long Island or the Jersey coast,” said Captain
Ringgold. “I think there is no doubt on this point.”

“I agree with you that he has done one of these two things, for he
could not have done anything else. I am sorry to say I cannot leave
the Blanche at your disposition any longer than to-day, for my owner
ordered me to be off Twenty-third Street by one o’clock to-morrow
afternoon,” added Captain Alcorn.

“I have no doubt we shall be able to come to some conclusion before
night,” added the other captain. “The Maud had about four hours the
lead of us.”

“She got the change of wind not long after midnight, and then she could
have turned out her reefs,” argued the commander of the Blanche.

“With a leading wind very likely she made eight knots; I don’t believe
she could do any better than that.”

“Thirty-two miles the start of us. We have been making twelve knots,
for I have crowded her to the utmost,” said Captain Alcorn, as he took
a paper and pencil from his pocket, and began to figure up the time
and distances. “If the Maud is headed directly for Bermuda, she is
forty-six sea miles to the southward and eastward of Sandy Hook, at the
most. My dead reckoning would give us thirty-six miles, or only ten
astern of the Maud. In three hours more we shall either see her, or be
ready to give her up on this course.”

“Precisely so, captain,” returned the other nautical authority. “Then
we shall be satisfied that the Maud has not sailed directly for
Bermuda.”

“Then a course to the west south-west will take us to Barnegat Inlet,
where we may obtain information at the light-house on the south side of
the entrance, as to whether or not such a schooner as the Maud has gone
in this morning.”

This plan was adopted by the two captains. Louis was fast asleep in one
of the berths in the cabin. He had been up till half-past three in the
morning when the yacht got under way, and he was well-nigh exhausted.
He was terribly anxious about his guardian-mother; but he had some
consolation in the knowledge that Felix McGavonty was with her, and
that he would protect and defend her from all harm.

Captain Ringgold had done his best to comfort him with the assurance
that it would not be the policy of Scoble to annoy or persecute his
mother. His sole object was to effect a reconciliation with her, and
he certainly could not accomplish it by ill-treating her. It was sound
reasoning, and Louis accepted it. The only thing he had to fear was
that she would be overborne by the wily persuasions of the villain,
though even in this respect he was tolerably confident that she would
be unyielding after the strong position she had taken.

Solaced by the reasonable view of his excellent friend, he had
consented to take to a berth in the cabin, and endeavor to obtain some
rest. Captain Ringgold did not seem to require any sleep, so carried
away was he by the interest he felt in the enterprise in which he was
engaged. After all that he had said to Louis, he found Bickling, the
cook, asleep on a divan in the cabin.

This man had given all the information that had been obtained in regard
to the intentions of Scoble, especially that the Maud was going to
Bermuda. It had been conveyed in a very hurried manner while the party
were walking from the creek to the town, in the midst of the excitement
of the occasion, and the shipmaster was not quite satisfied with it. He
did not scruple to rouse the cook from his deep slumber for the purpose
of examining him more at his leisure.

“You heard Captain Scoble say that he was bound for Bermuda, did you?”
demanded the captain, as he seated himself at the cabin table, some
distance from Louis’s berth.

“Which I did, sir, and very plainly too, sir,” replied Bickling after a
long and heavy gape.

“Did he give any reason for going to Bermuda?”

“Which he did not then, sir; but Stowin, which it is one of the seamen
of the vessel, told me ’e ’ad a brother there, which was the keeper
of an ’otel in St. George’s. Perhaps you don’t know about the Bermuda
Islands, sir?”

“I have been there half a dozen times, and know all about the islands.
Stowin told you Captain Scoble had a brother there?”

“Which he did, sir, and that the captain had ten thousand pounds left
him by his uncle in India, and ’e ’ad a bill for the same money for his
brother, which his name is ’Enery Scoble, and I ’ave been to his ’otel
in St. George, sir.”

In answer to the questions of the captain, Bickling said he had first
met Scoble at a restaurant in Baltimore, where he was order-cook. His
furnace was in the dining-room, and the captain of the Maud had spoken
to him about obtaining a cook for his vessel. As he wanted to return to
England, he had engaged with him for the voyage, as Scoble said he was
to have a lady passenger, and wanted to have a good table for her.

“But where was Scoble’s vessel at this time?” asked Captain Ringgold.

“Which it was somewhere on the coast of New Jersey, sir, and I don’t
just know where; but he called it Dolphin Bay,” replied the cook.

“I never heard of such a bay,” added the shipmaster; “and I don’t
believe there is one of that same name.”

“Which it is what Scoble called it; and I know nothing at all about it,
sir. We went to Philadelphia, and then a long way farther by railway,
and walked about seven miles over bogs and ma’shes, till we found the
schooner made fast to an island.”

The captain thought it more than possible that the Maud would seek the
same concealment as on that occasion, when he was hiding his vessel
and himself, and he was very desirous to obtain a better knowledge of
the place. The cook was profoundly ignorant in regard to the situation
of the bay, and he could obtain no satisfactory information. At three
bells in the forenoon watch he went on deck; but no vessel could be
seen that bore the least resemblance to the Maud.

Captain Alcorn was confident that he should have overhauled the
schooner before this time, and it was agreed that it was useless to
continue the pursuit in this direction. The yacht was then headed for
Barnegat Inlet, and at half-past two in the afternoon a boat was sent
ashore to make inquiries, in charge of Captain Ringgold. No such vessel
as the Maud had passed the Light that day, and the course was laid to
the northward.

Several inlets were entered, and diligent inquiry made for the Maud. No
one on the coast had ever heard of Dolphin Bay, and it was evident that
Scoble had given the name to the inlet himself in order to blind the
cook, for he had strong motives for concealing the vessel and himself.
It was impossible in the time at the disposal of the pursuers to make
a thorough survey. In one of the inlets they approached they could
find no inhabitants, and possibly this one was “Dolphin Bay.” At nine
o’clock in the evening Captain Ringgold and Louis were landed at the
destination of the Blanche, just in time to take a train for home.

Louis was thoroughly cast down and disheartened at the ill-success of
the search for the Maud. Devoted as he had always been to his mother,
he had never known before how much he loved her, as one appreciates a
parent more than ever before after he has lost her. He was so exhausted
by his efforts and the excitement of the day, that he had slept a
considerable portion of the time the yacht had been at sea.

The captain was not cast down; but he was very indignant and
disappointed at the trick which had been played upon them, and at
the failure to bring the guilty perpetrators of it to justice and
retribution. He blamed himself that he had not been more cautious in
leaving the mate alone in the boat for even a single minute.

The train moved on, and the shipmaster was silent and in deep thought
for half the distance to the Park. He had not the slightest idea of
giving up the battle, and he was willing to spend half his fortune
in recovering the lady who had been kidnapped. Captain Alcorn had
suggested to Mr. Boulong that the gentleman from the Park had a very
deep and unusual interest in the fate of the lady, and they indulged in
some sly remarks on the subject. Louis did not hear them, and he had
no suspicion that his friend was actuated by any other than the most
unselfish and disinterested motives.

The captain had been acquainted for years with Mrs. Belgrave, and at
one time had been a rather earnest admirer of the lady. When Louis had
asked him to visit the Oxford with him as an expert, he was very much
pleased to learn that the mother of the young millionaire was to be one
of the party. The widow of Paul Belgrave was hardly in a situation
to marry till Scoble had in some manner been shaken off. But whatever
the retired shipmaster was thinking about in relation to the lady, it
was absolutely certain that she had not the remotest idea of marrying
either him or any other gentleman.

“Louis, I hope you have given up the idea of buying such an old tub as
the Maud for a yacht,” said the captain as they approached the Park.

“I have thought no more about the matter, sir,” replied Louis moodily.

“I have been thinking about the matter all day. I have an idea now.
If you had been the owner of a steamer like that built for Colonel
Singfield, we should get your mother back in the course of a day or
two. She steamed sixteen knots an hour on her trial trip, and she is
all ready to go to sea.”

“If I had been the owner of such a steamer, my mother would not have
been trapped on board of the Maud,” added Louis with a faint smile.

“I wish we had her under our control at this moment,” said the captain
with a great deal of earnestness. “Louis, if Uncle Moses will consent
to it, I will buy this steam-yacht with you!”

There was something like desperation in the manner of Captain Ringgold.
He was popularly supposed to be worth half a million of dollars. He was
a widower and had no children, and doubtless he felt at liberty to use
his wealth for his own amusement. Louis was startled at the idea.




CHAPTER XXIV

THE GUARDIAN-MOTHER


Captain Ringgold and Louis Belgrave reached Von Blonk Park just as
the former expressed his readiness to join in the purchase of the new
steam-yacht. The young millionaire was so startled at the idea, that
he could say nothing, and they left the train after only a mention of
the subject. As usual there was a crowd around the station, and they
had no opportunity to discuss the question. It was late in the evening;
but the shipmaster went with his young friend to the residence of Uncle
Moses, the temporary home of Louis.

A steam-yacht that would cost in the vicinity of a hundred thousand
dollars, and whose running-expenses would amount to a large sum, was a
tremendously big question to the young man of sixteen who had always
lived in plenty, but never in luxury. But he did not feel that he was
to be responsible for the financial settlement of the question, for
Uncle Moses could veto the plan without even a word of explanation if
he was so disposed.

“How big is this yacht of which you speak, Captain Ringgold?” asked
Louis, still appalled at the thought of such a heavy investment.

“I am not very sure on that point, though she is big enough for a
voyage around the world,” replied the captain. “My impression is
that she is a vessel of about six hundred tons, though she may be
considerably smaller than that.”

“Do you believe we could get my mother back if we had her?”

“I feel reasonably sure of it, Louis. In fact, it looks like a very
plain case to me,” replied the captain with enthusiasm. “We could
sail around that old tub a dozen times a day, for I don’t believe the
Maud can make more than eight knots an hour under the most favorable
circumstances.”

“How long do you suppose the Maud will remain in her present
hiding-place, wherever it may be?” asked Louis.

“Less than a day, I should suppose. Scoble is as much bothered to know
what our movements will be, as we are to understand what he will do.
As you told me the villain has no suspicion that the missing million
has been reclaimed, and that you are now worth a million and a half,
he will not expect a pursuit on a grand scale, such as we are now
considering. He supposes you have an income of less than a thousand
dollars a year, and he will not believe it possible that we can pursue
him with anything more than a small sailing-vessel.”

“He may have come out of his hole before this time, and gone on his way
to Bermuda.”

“He may, but I don’t believe he has. He will hardly believe that we can
organize a pursuit before to-morrow morning, and he will hardly dare to
come out before twenty-four hours from the present time.”

“How long before the steam-yacht will be in readiness to sail?”

“I cannot answer that question definitely; but not in less than a whole
day, I should say. I believe she has her crew on board at the present
time, for Colonel Singfield intended to sail in her the very day he
died.”

“But Scoble will get away from us before that time,” suggested Louis.

“I am confident he will not come out of his hole before to-morrow
night, and perhaps not till the next morning; but all this is
guess-work, and he may be on his way to Bermuda at this moment. It
is no use to follow him in a sailing-vessel. But here we are at the
squire’s house, and there is a light in the office. I have no doubt he
is very much worried about you and your mother.”

Louis led the way into the office of Uncle Moses without the ceremony
of knocking. The worthy lawyer was smoking his cigar very vigorously,
and had probably exceeded his usual indulgence on this extraordinary
occasion. The moment he saw Louis he sprang out of his big chair as
briskly as though he had been a trained athlete, and rushed upon the
young man, hugging him as his mother would have done on a similar
provocation.

“My dear boy!” cried the two hundred pounder, shaking all over with
emotion. “Where have you been? I expected you and your mother back by
the middle of the afternoon. I am afraid something has happened.”

“Something has happened, Uncle Moses,” replied Louis, bursting into
tears.

“But where is your mother, my poor boy?” demanded the squire, suddenly
losing the cheerful expression on his fat face.

“She is John Scoble’s prisoner on board of his vessel,” replied Louis,
dropping into a chair and covering his face with both hands, while he
wept as though his heart was broken.

“Good-evening, Captain Ringgold,” continued the squire, hardly able to
restrain his own feelings, as he turned to the shipmaster. “What does
all this mean?”

“It means that we have been tricked, trapped, outwitted by this
Scoble!” exclaimed the captain, with a mixture of shame and
indignation. “The vessel we went to look at was the Maud, and the whole
plot was to get Louis and his mother on board of her.”

“Take a cigar, Captain; sit down and tell me all about it,” said the
squire. “Don’t cry, Louis; we shall find a way out of this trouble, as
we have out of all others, though this appears to be the severest trial
that has beset you, my dear boy,” added Uncle Moses, as tenderly as a
woman could have spoken.

Captain Ringgold lighted his cigar, and related very minutely all the
incidents of the day; and his indignation waxed almost furious when he
came to the part in which the mate had so cleverly tricked him. Squire
Scarburn listened with his mouth half open at the exciting details.
Then he asked a number of questions which the captain answered.

“It is not so bad as I feared it might be,” said the squire when he was
in possession of all the details. “We have had a heavy gale here since
you went away this morning, and I was afraid you had gone out to sea
to try the vessel. I concluded that you were out on the ocean, and that
some of you had been drowned.”

“Not so bad as that,” replied the captain.

“Terrible as Louis considers the situation, I am greatly relieved to
learn that it is no worse,” added Uncle Moses. “That this Scoble is a
rascal, there can be no doubt, but”--

“He has not the remotest suspicion that the missing million has been
recovered, as Louis tells me, for the villain tried to effect his
reconciliation with Mrs. Belgrave by informing her and her son where
the treasure was concealed,” interposed the captain.

“So much the better,” answered Uncle Moses, nodding his head half a
dozen times to express his satisfaction more forcibly. “As long as the
money has been found, and even if it had not been found, Mrs. Belgrave
has nothing to fear from her late husband. With Louis I believe it
would have been different; and I wonder these conspirators have not
contrived some way to have him fall overboard. But what is to be done?
We won’t waste even one of the dark minutes of the night.”

“You are aware that just before we parted this morning I protested to
you against the purchase of any old tub of a vessel for Louis,” replied
Captain Ringgold.

“I remember; and you said something about a steam-yacht, though I did
not quite understand what you were driving at.”

“I believe you ought not to permit Louis to risk his life in anything
but the strongest and most seaworthy craft that can be built, and
especially not in any such old death-trap as the Maud. Now will you
excuse me if I ask what may seem to you to be impertinent questions?”
continued the captain, very earnestly.

“Certainly, my dear sir; I know now, if I did not know it before, that
you are one of Louis’s best friends, and whatever you say will be for
his good.”

“I have something to propose, and I wish to know the extent of the
young man’s fortune,” added the captain.

“He has one million four hundred thousand dollars, well invested,
besides a surplus of about one hundred thousand dollars, which I have
kept on deposit for any emergency,” replied Squire Scarburn promptly.

“I think the emergency has come, even independently of the kidnapping
of the boy’s mother. Now, what is his probable income?”

“Seventy thousand dollars; for his money will pay an average of five
per cent, and I am confident it is safely placed.”

“Good!” exclaimed the shipmaster. “Better than I supposed.”

Captain Ringgold then introduced the subject of purchasing the
steam-yacht as yet without a name. The good squire was startled when he
named the price it was expected to pay for the vessel, and shook his
head rather ominously.

“I will give all I have in the world to get my mother back, and a
hundred thousand dollars is nothing but a bagatelle compared with the
safety and happiness of my mother!” exclaimed Louis, who had been
listening eagerly to all that was said.

“But I propose to pay one-half of the price, and own one-half of the
vessel,” interposed Captain Ringgold. “And of course I shall pay
one-half of the expense of running the steamer.”

This proposition seemed to knock the squire entirely out of his
self-possession; and he paused in silence, gazing intently at the
shipmaster as if he desired to fathom his motive in making an offer so
startlingly liberal. He had no especial interest in Louis, though he
and the boy had always been warm friends. It occurred just then to the
squire, and perhaps it had occurred to him before, that the captain had
an especial interest in Louis’s mother, as he certainly had had a few
years before.

Uncle Moses was silent for some time, during which he did some heavy
thinking, though no one could know precisely what it was all about.
Perhaps he was considering whether or not he ought to make such a heavy
investment in what he regarded as a mere plaything for the boy. But he
soon came to a conclusion, and his fat face brightened up all at once,
his habitual smile recovering possession of it.

“No, no, Captain Ringgold; I could not for a moment think of accepting
your proposition. If Louis is to own a steam-yacht, he must own it
himself alone,” said the squire very decidedly.

“Of course I made the offer solely to help along the plan we have in
view for the recovery of Mrs. Belgrave; more than this, I believe the
purchase at the price it can be bought will be a good investment, for
she cost a good deal more money than they ask for her,” replied the
captain, taken all aback by the firm and decisive conclusion of the
trustee, though it possibly upset some hope he had been indulging.

The shipmaster’s manner assured the squire that he had come to a
correct conclusion, for he felt that he had no right to complicate
the affairs of the mother in looking out for the welfare of the son.
He did not consider that it would be proper for him to put the worthy
nautical gentleman in condition to “make his way” with Mrs. Belgrave by
permitting him to become half-owner in the steam-yacht.

“Now, my dear captain, can you give me an idea of the probable expense
of running this steamer?” asked Uncle Moses.

“Fifty thousand dollars a year might easily be spent on such a yacht,
but I believe it will not cost your ward more than half that sum. I
believe that a trip around the world in such a craft would be worth
more to him than a college course, especially if he took a competent
instructor with him,” replied the expert.

“That would just suit me!” exclaimed Louis.

“Buy the yacht for him then, Captain Ringgold,” added the trustee. “He
will not spend more than half his income at that rate.”

“What shall her name be?” asked the shipmaster.

“The Guardian-Mother,” replied Louis without an instant’s hesitation.




CHAPTER XXV

ON BOARD OF THE PHANTOM


Captain Ringgold expressed his astonishment in his looks at the name
the young millionaire had chosen for his yacht, and Uncle Moses shook
his fat frame with laughter. Probably they supposed he would select
the “Thunderer,” the “Skyrocket,” the “Boomerang,” or at least the
“Sea-Nymph,” the “Ocean-Bird,” or some similar appellation, as most
boys would have been likely to do.

“That is rather a strange name for a steam-yacht of six hundred tons,”
suggested the shipmaster.

“I would have called her the ‘Maud,’ after my mother, if Scoble had not
given the name to that schooner,

  ‘Built in the eclipse and rigged with curses dark.’

If I should set up an idol on earth, in a metaphorical sense, I should
call it the ‘Guardian-Mother,’ and it would mean her who has watched
over me all my life,” replied Louis, the tears beginning to fill his
eyes again. “If this steam-yacht means anything to me, it means the
safety and happiness of my mother, with whom in my inmost thoughts I
have for some time associated this name.”

“There is not another word to be said!” exclaimed Captain Ringgold. “I
know what it means now.”

“It is not a bad name at all,” added the squire. “I think it is rather
poetical.”

“I know what it means to me, and I don’t care whether anybody else
knows or not,” added Louis, wiping away his tears.

“The question is fully understood now,” said the captain, springing
from his chair and consulting his watch. “The last train leaves in half
an hour, and we must go to New York by it. Squire Scarburn, you had
better have Mrs. Blossom pack up all Mrs. Belgrave’s clothing, linen,
and trinkets, with plenty of warm wraps.”

While Louis was packing his valise, for he was not sure that he could
return the next day, Uncle Moses drew several checks, payable to the
captain’s order, taking his receipt for the amount. The shipmaster
went to his own house for his clothing, and they left for New York by
the train. The squire hugged Louis again, and gave him a large check
for the expenses of the expedition in which he was to be engaged. It
was understood that Captain Ringgold was to go with him to Bermuda, or
wherever else he might go.

“Now, Louis, you will soon be the owner of as fine a steamer as ever
went out of New York harbor, and I hope that inside of ten days you
will have your mother settled in the best stateroom on board of her,”
said the shipmaster when they were seated in the car.

“I hope so with all my heart; and when that comes to pass I shall feel
as though I owed more to you for it than to all others,” replied the
embryo yacht owner warmly.

“Not at all, Louis; I am almost as much interested in this business as
you are; and I pledge you my life, my property, and my sacred honor to
stand by you to the end,” said the captain very pleasantly.

“Thank you, sir; and when I see my mother I shall inform her that she
owes more to you than to me for whatever has been done for her.”

This remark pleased the nautical expert very much; but if Uncle Moses
had been on the train, and could have prevented it, he would not have
permitted his ward to make such a promise. The captain said no more
about that matter, but his head was very full of business.

“I suppose you are tired out, Louis; but there is a good deal to be
done even before morning. I am not quite satisfied to leave Scoble to
himself till we are ready to ‘go for him’ in the Guardian-Mother,” said
he, beginning to state his proposed arrangements. “I cannot go down to
Dolphin Bay, if there is any such bay, or to the coast of Jersey, for I
have to attend to the purchase of the steamer, and the fitting of her
out to-morrow. I know where I can find a small steamer commanded by a
man I have assisted to purchase her, and I am going to send you down
with him to be on the watch for the Maud. You can sleep all you want to
as soon as you get on board of her.”

Captain Ringgold proceeded to detail his plans. While he was doing so
he happened to look across the aisle of the car, and discovered there,
somewhat to his astonishment, Bickling, the cook of the Maud. He had
gone with them by the train to Von Blonk Park; but in the excitement of
the hour both Louis and the captain had forgotten all about him. He
was busily engaged in conversation with a man in the seat with him, to
whom the cook seemed to be telling some sort of a story.

The man with whom Bickling was talking was apparently about forty years
old, with nothing particularly noticeable about him. As the cook had
never been in this part of the country, it was hardly probable that he
had ever met him before. The couple seemed to be very intimate for so
short an acquaintance. On the ferry-boat Bickling approached Louis, and
very politely and deferentially saluted him.

“I have been so busy that I forgot all about you, Bickling,” said Louis.

“Which I got out of the railway carriage when you did, sir; and I
waited a long time for this train, sir,” added the cook.

“Who is the man with you?” asked Louis in a low tone.

“Which his name it is Flounder, sir; and I never saw him before
to-night in all my life, sir; but he is a Hinglishman, sir, and we made
friends at once, sir; for a Hinglishman is a Hinglishman all over the
world, sir,” replied Bickling.

“You were telling him a long story on the train.”

“Which I told him about my little cruise in the Maud; ’ow the lady and
’er son ’ad been kidnapped, sir, and he was very sorry indeed, sir, for
you, for he knew Captain Scoble when he lived ’ere; and he wished ’e
could ’elp you get back the lady.”

“I am very much obliged to him,” replied Louis, who had already decided
to take the cook with him, believing he might be serviceable to him on
account of his knowledge of the vessel. “I am going down to the Jersey
coast in a steamer; if you are willing, I should like to have you go
with me, and I will pay you wages.”

“Thank you, sir; which I shall be very ’appy to go, sir, and to serve
you like a good master as you are, sir. This is my friend Mr. Flounder,
sir,” said the cook, presenting his companion.

The man bowed very obsequiously, and proceeded to explain himself. He
knew John Scoble very well, for he had loaned him two hundred dollars
from his savings, and the jockey had run away without paying him a
cent. If he could see him again he would take it out of his hide, if he
couldn’t get it out of his pocket. He was out of work just then, and he
would be glad to follow Scoble if he could and get his money, for Mr.
Bickling said that his debtor had inherited a fortune.

“What were you doing out at Von Blonk Park so late in the night?” asked
Louis.

“I went out to find Mr. Steinberger; I am used to horses, and I thought
he might give me a job. I waited all the evening for him, sir, and he
did not come home,” replied Flounder.

Louis spoke to Captain Ringgold about him, and decided to take the
man with him. He had a grudge against Scoble, and this fact seemed to
assure his fidelity, though it was hardly a reliable recommendation.
A carriage was procured, and the party drove direct to a pier where
several small steamers lay. The captain soon found the one he wanted,
and they went on board, of her. She appeared to have just come to her
landing-place, and the steam was hissing still in her pipes. She was
a screw steamer, somewhat larger than the ordinary tug-boats, and was
called the Phantom.

Captain Brisbane, the owner and commander, had not yet turned in:
he gave the shipmaster from the Park a warm welcome, and the latter
explained the object of his visit at that late hour. Captain Ringgold
had been very confident from the first that the Maud had gone to the
southward, for that course gave her a fair wind. It required about half
an hour to agree on the details of the intended trip, and by that time
the Phantom was in condition to depart.

“Now, Louis, I don’t much care whether or not you find the Maud; for
as soon as I can get the Guardian-Mother to sea, we shall make easy
work of this business,” said the captain, as he grasped the hand of the
young millionaire. “I have directed Captain Brisbane to look into all
the openings on the Jersey coast as far as Barnegat Inlet, for I feel
sure that the Maud has not gone any farther south. But the main thing
is to observe the schooner if she comes out of any inlet on the shore,
and keep watch of her. Keep her in sight, but don’t attempt to board
her. Captain Brisbane will follow your directions in all things. Now
turn in, and the captain will call you at about four o’clock in the
morning, when the Phantom will be off Squam Beach, or sooner if any
schooner is discovered coming out of an inlet. Bickling slept enough
last night, and he can identify the Maud; and it may not be necessary
to call you unless the Phantom overhauls her.”

The shipmaster took his leave of the young man, and proceeded in
the carriage that was waiting for him to the residence of Captain
Singfield, a brother of the late owner of the new steam-yacht, who
had the disposal of the handsome craft in his hands. Captain Brisbane
showed Louis to a stateroom, and he was between the sheets before the
steamer got away from the pier. Flounder went to the forecastle to find
a place to sleep, while the cook spread himself out on the divan in the
pilot-house to finish his night’s sleep.

It was about sunrise when Louis was called. He had slept five hours,
and he felt like a new millionaire. He found that the Phantom had been
off Squam an hour or more, waiting for the tide to make a little more.
Every vessel that could possibly be the Maud had been followed and
examined, but Bickling pronounced against all of them. The steamer was
to make thorough work of the search this time. The plan had been laid
out by Captain Ringgold, and if the schooner came out of any inlet on
the high tide she would be intercepted by the steamer.

The Phantom ran into an inlet with an Indian name, and a boat was sent
ashore to make inquiries at a life-saving station. The Maud had not
been seen, and the men were sure that no such craft had gone in at the
opening. The steamer then proceeded to the north about six miles to
another opening in the coast. Louis had gone to the pilot-house, and
was looking with all his might in every direction for any appearance of
the fugitive craft. The captain rang his bell to stop her as soon as
she had passed into a broad inlet which extended some distance to the
north. The shore here was covered with pines, so that a portion of the
sheet of water could not be seen.

“I wrote down all the facts, time, and distances, as Captain Ringgold
gave them to me,” said Captain Brisbane, as he took a paper from his
little desk in one corner of the pilot-house. “The Maud left her
anchorage last night at eleven o’clock, Mr. Belgrave. In my judgment,
the schooner could not have got any farther to the south than we are
now.”

“Well, captain, what shall we do?” asked Louis.

“From the point where we are now, we can look out to sea and observe
every vessel that goes along the coast, and we can intercept anything
coming out of this bay,” replied Captain Brisbane, with a long gape.
“I have but a small crew, and the fact of it is that we are all about
used up, I have not slept a wink for thirty hours; neither have my
engineer and the hands. You have two men with you who ought to be
fresh, for they have been asleep for the last six hours. I can’t go in
any farther, for the tide would leave me high and dry before noon. Now,
if you are so disposed, you can take the boat, and explore the bay to
your satisfaction, while the rest of us get a little sleep.”

Louis decided at once to examine the bay, and his two men were called.




CHAPTER XXVI

AMONG THE PINES


Bickling had certainly slept enough, for he had been on the divan about
ten hours during the evening and the morning, when Louis roused him
from his slumbers. He sprang from his bed very promptly, and looking
about him mildly inquired where he was. Then he went to the windows in
front of the pilot-house and looked out for some time in silence.

“Do you know where you are now, Bickling?” asked Louis.

“Which I think I do, sir. It looks as though we were in Dolphin Bay
again,” replied the cook, as he continued his examination of the
surroundings.

“Like Dolphin Bay!” exclaimed Louis, recognizing the fictitious name
which Scoble had given the cook when he first went on board of the
vessel; and he was satisfied that this was the locality where Scoble
had concealed her appearance by painting her white.

“Which I am not quite sure, sir; but it looks like Dolphin Bay,”
answered Bickling, as he settled his gaze upon the expanse of water to
the north of the steamer.

“I should think you would know the place if you had ever been here
before,” added Louis rather impatiently.

“Which it looks just like it, sir; but I was busy getting breakfast
when we came out of the bay, and I did not watch the shore,” pleaded
the cook. “I was on board of the Maud two nights and a day before she
sailed, which it was not in this part of the bay at all where she lay.”

“Where did she lay, then?”

“Which I see it all now, sir!” exclaimed Bickling as he pointed across
the bay. “Do you mind the point, sir, over on the other side, sir? It
reaches over within a quarter of a mile of the shore on your left, and
is covered with pines.”

“I can see it plain enough.”

“Which the water extends up beyond the point, sir, where you can’t see
it; and it was in there where the Maud was tied to a tree, sir.”

This was definite enough. There was a considerable expanse of water
at the south-west of the point, and the bay formed a W, upside down
from the pilot-house, the space between the two acute angles forming
the point covered with trees. The two deck hands of the steamer were
getting the boat ready for the expedition, and Flounder had come up
from the forecastle.

“Flounder, do you know how to row?” asked Louis, who had gone down to
the main deck with the captain, followed by the cook.

“I do, sir; I made two voyages up the Mediterranean when I was twenty
years younger than I am now,” replied the recruit.

“I will pay you for your services, and I want you to row the boat with
Bickling,” added Louis.

“Now you must be very prudent, Mr. Belgrave,” said Captain Brisbane, as
the two men took their places in the boat. “If you get into any trouble
over there, I can’t do a thing to help you. The Phantom would be hard
and fast on the bottom before I could get her over to that point, and I
have only one boat.”

“I mean to be always prudent, Captain,” replied Louis, as he took his
place in the stern sheets of the boat.

The young millionaire shoved off with the boat-hook, and the two men
gave way very well together. There was no rudder to the boat, but Louis
found an oar, which he used in the rowlock in the stern board.

The distance across to the point was about a mile, and Louis steered
directly for it. He had decided to land there; if the Maud was
concealed around the neck of land, he preferred not to come upon her in
the boat.

The schooner still had four men on board of her, and he had no doubt
Scoble would recognize him the moment he set eyes on him. He would then
understand that his hiding-place was discovered, and in his desperation
he was capable of being very wicked. It would be more prudent, as
Captain Ringgold had cautioned him to be, and Captain Brisbane had
repeated the warning, to land at the point, and move up among the pines
on the shore till the Maud was discovered, if she was there.

“I beg your pardon, sir, but don’t you think it would be better to
run farther up the bay than the point, sir?” asked Flounder, who was
pulling the stroke oar.

[Illustration: “‘STOP WHERE YOU ARE!’ SHOUTED FLOUNDER.” Page 207.]

“I do not think so,” replied Louis very decidedly. “I am going to land
on the point.”

“I don’t believe the vessel you are looking for is up here at all, and
I don’t care about doing any more walking than is necessary,” added
Flounder, in a tone which bordered upon impudence to his employer. “By
going a little way up the bay to the north, you can see all there is
here that floats.”

“Nothing more need be said about it; we are going to the point,”
replied Louis, quietly but firmly.

Flounder said no more. Whatever the recruit might be, there was
evidently an element of insubordination in him. But he hated Scoble,
and intended to get either money or revenge out of him. The boat
reached the point, and Louis ran it up on the beach.

“Bickling, you may go on shore, and walk up far enough to enable you
to see whether or not there is a vessel around the point,” said Louis.
“If you find the Maud there, and you will know her at once, come back
immediately, and you need not go near her.”

“Which I don’t want to go near her, sir,” replied the cook, as he
stepped ashore, and started to obey the order.

“I think I will go with him,” added Flounder, as he leaped out of the
boat.

“Very well; but if the Maud is there, don’t go near her,” replied the
leader.

“If I get my eye on Scoble, I shall want to know if he has any money in
his pockets,” answered the recruit.

Louis was not particularly well pleased with Flounder, for he had begun
to develop a sort of lawlessness in his manner. But if Scoble got hold
of him, and made a prisoner of him, it made but little difference to
him, for he could readily dispense with the services of such a man. The
two men disappeared around the point, where the ground seemed to be
dry, though it was nothing but a bog on the south side.

Reasoning from the opinions expressed by the nautical experts, Louis
expected to find the Maud in this bay, which the cook had recognized
as the one where Scoble had concealed her before. She had come to the
southward because that course gave her a fair wind; and she had not
sailed directly for Bermuda, for the Blanche would certainly have
overhauled her if she had done so. The chase must have put in at some
inlet; and as Scoble had been into “Dolphin Bay” before, it was quite
probable that he had sheltered himself here again.

Louis sat in the boat for half an hour or more, thinking over the
situation, and wondering when the Guardian-Mother would arrive. She
could hardly be expected before the next day, and all the Phantom had
to do was to blockade the inlet, in accordance with the instructions of
Captain Ringgold. While he was reflecting very busily, he heard a yell
from the shore.

“Help! help!” was the appeal that came to him; and the voice was like
that of Bickling.

He was startled at the cry, and he wondered if Scoble was in the act of
recovering possession of his cook. Leaping from the boat on the impulse
of the moment, he was about to rush to the assistance of the person
who needed aid, when he discovered that the boat was afloat because he
had moved his weight out of it. He drew it far up on the beach, but it
reminded him that he was to use prudence. If the boat had gone adrift
the tide would have carried it out to sea, unless the watch on the
Phantom intercepted it.

“Help! help! murder!” yelled the voice again, and not very far from him.

Louis ran with all his might in the direction taken by the two men, and
soon came upon them. The cook was on the ground, and the recruit was
bending over him, apparently engaged in binding his arms behind him.

“What are you about?” demanded Louis, in good, vigorous English. “What
are you doing with that man?”

“Softly, you little chickenpop! You needn’t come any nearer, for this
affair is mine and not yours,” returned the ruffian.

“I shall make it my affair! Let the man up at once!”

“If you will excuse me, I will not do it,” replied Flounder.

“I think you will!” added Louis, breaking into a run, and rushing with
all his might to the scene of the outrage.

“Stop where you are!” shouted Flounder, as he rose to an upright
position with one of his feet on the chest of his victim so that he
could not move.

At the same moment the cook’s assailant levelled a revolver at the head
of the young man, who had not been intimidated by his threats. But
Louis already had his hand upon his own weapon, and perhaps forgetting
the lessons in prudence which had been given to him that day and often
before, he drew it out, and fired instantly. The revolver which was
pointed at his head suddenly dropped upon the ground, and the arm that
held it fell to the side of the assailant.

Louis was prudent, though he had acted as quick as a flash. His bullet
sped on its way before Flounder could realize what he was doing. One
of the lessons he had taken at the shooting gallery had prepared him
for just the practice he needed, to save himself. He had not intended
to kill or mortally wound his opponent. All he desired was to save
himself, and he had done so by disabling the ruffian.

As the revolver dropped upon the ground, Bickling sprang to his feet.
He saw Louis; he also saw the weapon where it had fallen, and he picked
it up. Evidently Flounder was suffering a good deal of pain, judging
from the expression on his face. He seemed to be sort of dazed by the
suddenness of his opponent’s action, as well as by his injury. Bickling
ran towards Louis. He was as white as a sheet, frightened half out of
his senses, though he did not seem to be otherwise injured. He tendered
the revolver he had picked up to his deliverer, who put it in his left
hip-pocket.

At the same moment, the ruffian, conscious that he was utterly defeated
by that single shot, started to move away from the others. The battle
among the pines seemed to satisfy him. But the victor was not disposed
to allow him to escape in that direction. He did not yet understand the
situation, and had no idea what had caused him to fall upon such an
innocent and pluckless person as the cook.

“Stop, Flounder!” called Louis, sharply enough to produce an impression
on the ruffian, while he still kept his smoking revolver in his hand.

The man stopped; but he seemed to be very much disheartened and
disgusted at the turn the affair had taken. Why he should move in the
direction he had taken unless the Maud was there, Louis could not
imagine.

“You threatened my life with a revolver, and you have been disabled. I
have no ill-feeling towards you, and I propose to take you on board of
the steamer, where you can be properly attended to,” said Louis, in a
mild tone.

“I shall not go on board of the steamer again,” replied Flounder,
gathering up somewhat from his depression.

“But you will go to the steamer!” added Louis sternly. “Bickling, did
you see any vessel up the bay?”

“Which I did, and the Maud is there, sir,” answered the cook.

“That is all I want to know now,” continued the plucky leader, as he
walked up to Flounder, and told him to march for the boat.

The ruffian refused to do so. Louis took him by the collar, and then
a scuffle ensued; but the recruit could do nothing with his right
shoulder disabled, and fell to the ground. With the assistance of the
cook, Louis dragged him to the boat, put him into it, and then shoved
off.




CHAPTER XXVII

AN AGENT OF THE ENEMY


By this time Louis had come to believe that “Flounder” was not the
real name of the recruit he had picked up. The fellow had been out to
Von Blonk Park, but he doubted if he had been near Mr. Steinberger’s
residence. But he had not time to consider the matter then, for his
prisoner was very restive, and protested against being conveyed to the
Phantom in his present wounded condition.

“What do you wish me to do with you?” demanded Louis as he ceased
rowing, for the boat was now at a considerable distance from the point.

“Put me back on the shore from which you had no right to take me,”
replied Flounder.

“Do you wish me to leave you, wounded as you are, in the woods there?”

“I can take care of myself better than you can take care of me.”

“As I understand the situation, I engaged you to work for me, engaged
your passage on the steamer, and agreed to pay you wages. I shall not
desert you now that you are wounded,” added Louis.

“Who wounded me?” asked the recruit.

“I did, when you threatened my life with your revolver. In self-defence
I fired at you, and hit you just where I intended, for I did not mean
to kill or seriously injure you; and I don’t believe I have done so.”

“Our contract ended when you fired at me, and I insist upon being put
ashore,” said Flounder, rising from his seat in the stern sheets, where
Louis had placed him. “Either return me to the point, or I will jump
over and swim for it, for I can do so with one arm left.”

Louis felt that he had a stronger motive than the comfort of the
recruit in retaining him; for the cook had informed him that the Maud
was in the bay, and this man would be only another person added to the
force of Scoble. Flounder had risen from his seat in the stern sheets,
and turned to look at the distance between him and the shore, evidently
measuring it with his eye, and estimating his power to accomplish it by
swimming with one hand.

The wounded man was about the size of Scoble, and the young millionaire
had already convinced himself that he was more than a match for him, at
least in his present half-disabled condition. He judged that the fellow
really intended to make the attempt to swim to the point, which was not
more than a hundred feet distant. Rising in his place at the stroke
oar, he seized Flounder by the back of his coat collar, and then sat
down again, dragging his opponent after him.

The victim struggled, but taken at a disadvantage he could not make an
effectual resistance.

Louis held him fast, and rolled him over to one side, so that he rested
on the after thwart upon his left shoulder, his wound being in the
right one. He kept him in this position, looking about the boat till
he discovered a roll of spun-yarn, which he directed the cook to pass
to him.

Still holding his prisoner upon the thwart, he ordered Bickling to
make fast the left wrist of the man to his suspender behind, so that
he could not use that arm any more than the other. In doing this the
principal operator had been obliged to throw open Flounder’s coat and
vest. As he did so, he discovered a package of papers and letters in
the pocket inside of the vest. He did not scruple to take possession of
these, an act which excited the wrath of the victim to an ungovernable
extent.

“Do you mean to rob me of my private papers?” demanded Flounder as
Louis permitted him to roll off the thwart into the bottom of the boat.

“After a man has threatened my life with a revolver, I intend to
ascertain as much about him as possible,” replied Louis quietly.
“Perhaps I know what I am about better than you think I do.”

“This is an outrage!” roared the victim.

“I suppose it is; but I also think it was an outrage to fall upon a
defenceless man, throw him down, and attempt to bind his hands behind
him, as I found you in the act of doing, Mr. Flounder. I am willing to
take the responsibility of everything I do.”

“You will have to suffer for this! I will have satisfaction for this,
if I have to follow you all over the world!” yelled the recruit, so
beside himself with anger that he could hardly utter his words, and
looked like a naughty boy crying in his fury.

“Give way, Bickling,” said Louis, poising his oar.

“Are you going to leave me in this situation?” demanded Flounder, whom
the pain suddenly reduced to something like subjection.

“Hold on a minute, Bickling,” added Louis, as he left his place at the
oar and stepped into the stern sheets.

Taking his victim by the collar of his coat, he raised him to the seat
and placed him upon it. Flounder groaned heavily, and no doubt the
movement gave him additional pain, which could hardly be avoided.

“Do you mean to kill me?” gasped the recruit.

“I do not; I am not disposed to give you any unnecessary suffering.
Whatever pain you have you have brought upon yourself. Now if you
will keep quiet, I will not molest you again; and when we get to
the steamer, I will see that your wound is dressed and that you are
properly cared for. Now, give way, Bickling.”

The two oarsmen pulled till the boat reached the Phantom, which had
drifted some little distance into the entrance to the inlet. Flounder
had learned wisdom from his suffering, and he made no further attempt
at resistance. One of the two deck hands of the steamer had slept
on the passage down from the city, and he was now on watch on the
forecastle. He hailed Louis to learn what had happened, for he could
not help seeing the struggle in the boat.

“Call Captain Brisbane!” shouted Louis.

“What is the matter?” asked the man.

“Call the captain as quick as you can!” replied Louis sharply; and
the man hastened to ascend the ladder to the pilot-house, where the
commander was putting in his sleeping.

Before the boat could get alongside the steamer, Captain Brisbane came
in sight, and rushed down the ladder to the forecastle. Probably the
man who had been on watch had told him that something had happened to
the expedition in the boat, for he manifested considerable excitement
when he appeared on deck.

“What is the trouble, Mr. Belgrave?” demanded the captain.

“This man in the stern is shot in the shoulder, and I want him attended
to before I say anything,” replied Louis, who was a Christian at heart
as well as in form, and was willing to heal the wound even of an enemy.

“Shot in the shoulder!” exclaimed the captain. “Have you been in a
fight?”

The chief of the expedition did not answer the question, for the boat
had come up to the gangway by this time, and he gave himself up to the
duty of putting the sufferer on board. With the help of the captain
and the deck hand, Flounder was easily transferred to the steamer, and
conveyed to a stateroom, where he was put into the berth.

Like all masters of vessels, Captain Brisbane had some skill in
prescribing for the sick, and in dressing wounds; for none but the
largest vessels carry a surgeon. Somewhat to the astonishment of
Louis, Flounder submitted to an examination, and behaved himself in a
reasonable manner. His coat was removed, and his shirt turned down so
that the wound could be seen.

“Not bad at all,” said the captain, after he had looked the man over
very carefully. “I have often cured worse wounds than this one on
board ship. It is not in the shoulder, as you said, Mr. Belgrave: it is
in the arm near the shoulder, but has not touched the bone. The ball
went through the fleshy part and came out on the other side.”

“I am glad it is no worse, though it seems to be painful,” added Louis.

The captain proceeded to stanch the flow of blood, and then dressed
the wound very skilfully for an amateur. He insisted that the patient
should keep very quiet; and the party left the room. Louis insisted
that he should be locked in, to which the captain assented, and
declared that the man was as secure where he was as he would be in a
cell in The Tombs.

“Now what is all this about, Mr. Belgrave?” demanded the captain
impatiently.

“If you will direct your man on deck to watch that room, I will tell
you all I know, which is hardly more than you have already learned,”
replied Louis, as he led the way to the forward part of the boat.

The captain directed the man on duty to watch the door of the
stateroom; and the trio seated themselves on the forecastle. Louis said
that Bickling must be the first one to tell his story, for he alone
knew what had transpired on the shore before the leader landed.

“Which it was Flounder that fell upon me like a thief and a robber,
sir, when I ’ad done nothing in the world to vex ’im,” replied the
cook, not a little excited when he recalled the scene. “He knocked me
down, sir, when I was thinking of nothing. Then ’e wanted me to go on
board of the Maud, which”--

“Then the Maud, is really in this bay?” interposed, the captain. “I was
sure she was here after all I had heard, if she was anywhere on the
coast.”

“Which she is there, and just where she was before when I first went on
board, of ’er,” continued Bickling. “Flounder knocked me down just as
soon as we ’ad made sure the Maud was there.”

“How far off were you when you saw her?” asked Louis.

“Which I couldn’t say hexactly, but about as far off as that point is
from us now. Then Flounder which ’e says to me that we would go on
board the Maud, sir, and which I says no, I would not go any nearer to
’er, sir.”

Bickling then went on to say that Flounder had threatened to kill him
if he did not go with him, and had tried to tie his hands with his
handkerchief. He had cried out with all his might, when the ruffian had
stuffed his handkerchief into his mouth. He had struggled to get away
from him, for he was afraid of him. Then Mr. Belgrave “’ad come up,
which ’e was very glad to see ’im.”

Louis related the rest of the narrative, including all that occurred in
the boat. The final reduction of the prisoner to subjection reminded
him of the package of papers he had transferred to his own pocket from
that of the recruit, and he produced them. The first that attracted his
attention was a letter, postmarked at Shark River the morning of the
day before. The captain thought this was the nearest post-office to the
inlet.

Louis did not hesitate to open the letter, for he felt that he
was fighting an enemy in ambush. It was his first care to look at
the signature, which was “Wade Farrongate;” and the letter was in
the familiar handwriting of John Scoble. Turning to the address of
the letter, he read the name of “Ovid Kimpton.” Doubtless this was
Flounder’s real name. The letter instructed him to go at once to Von
Blonk Park, find Louis Belgrave, and follow him night and day wherever
he went.

The missive also contained some explanation of what he was about and
where he was, including the statement of his intention to sail for
Bermuda as soon as he could do so without the danger of being pursued.
The movements of Flounder were thus explained. Probably he had gone
to the Park, and, learning that Louis had gone away by train the day
before, and that his return was expected, he had waited for him at the
station, where he had met Bickling, who had told him all he wanted to
know.

“What shall we do, Captain Brisbane?” he asked when he had finished.

“Nothing; Captain Ringgold told me to do nothing if we found the Maud.”
Louis was within a mile of his mother, and could do nothing.




CHAPTER XXVIII

THE LAST OF THE PHANTOM


The letter promised to pay Kimpton twenty dollars a day for his
services; and perhaps this was the strongest reason why he wished to
see his employer. Captain Brisbane went up to the pilot-house again to
finish his nap, leaving Louis and the cook on the forward deck.

Bickling had certainly been faithful to his present employer, if his
other recruit had not; and Louis wondered that he had mustered up pluck
enough to resist the wishes of his late companion after he had resorted
to violence. The cook’s heart was in the right place; but he had not
force of character enough to be a whole man.

The forenoon passed away, and Louis continued to be very nervous and
uneasy. In spite of the injunction of Captain Ringgold, he was disposed
to take the boat and make a visit to the Maud. But there were still
four men left on board of her, and they were at liberty. If he put
himself within reach of Scoble, he would be made a prisoner, and his
power to do anything for his guardian-mother would have passed away.

Louis had been several times to a point on the steamer where he could
see the man on watch at the door of the wounded prisoner. He had
stretched himself on the deck, in the narrow gangway that was between
the rail and the house on deck. Undoubtedly Kimpton was the most
disappointed and disheartened man on board of the Phantom, for he
had utterly failed in his mission near the young millionaire. Louis
knew nothing more of him than the letter had revealed; but he looked
upon him as a desperately bad character, in short, just such a man as
Scoble himself. He had pluck enough for any person; but pluck may be
manifested in a bad cause as well as a good one.

Louis not only watched the man at the door of the desperado, but he
kept an eye up the bay in the direction where the Maud lay at her
moorings. Whether Scoble heard the noise made by the cook when he was
attacked or not, he must be aware of the presence of the Phantom at
the inlet. He must realize that his project of getting off unseen to
Bermuda had failed. He could not know, but he might well suspect, that
this steamer was there to intercept him.

Scoble was not likely to remain where he was for many days without
attempting to do something to effect his escape from the bay. Judging
from what Captain Brisbane said, it would be high tide at noon and at
midnight, or nearly at these times; and it was hardly probable that the
Maud could get to sea at any other hours of the day.

While Louis was uneasily walking about the deck, fretting at his own
inactivity while his mother was a prisoner in the hands of the enemy,
he was startled by the violent yelling on the part of the watch at the
door of Kimpton. This man had appeared to be asleep most of the time;
but as he lay across the doorway so that the prisoner could not escape,
Louis did not care to disturb the captain with a report of his neglect
of duty.

“Fire! Fire! Fire!” shouted the man at the top of his lungs.

“Where is the fire?” demanded Louis, startled at the cry.

“Down below,” replied the deck hand. “The deck is so hot you can’t bear
your hand on it!”

Louis found it very warm under his feet, and he remained in that part
of the vessel only long enough to satisfy himself that the door of the
wounded man’s stateroom was still locked. While the man on watch ran
forward to alarm the ship’s company, Louis followed the narrow gangway
to the stern, and then to the other side of the craft. He had hardly
reached the after part when he made a discovery which appeared to
explain the meaning of the fire in the hold of the Phantom.

The steamer was headed to the west, just as she had come in; and though
Louis was not aware of the fact, the anchor had been dropped, and the
fresh breeze kept the vessel headed in the direction of the point. The
boat, after the prisoner had been put on board, had been made fast at
the stern.

The boat was not where it had been secured, but Louis discovered it
half-way to the shore on the north side, with Kimpton in it, sculling
with all his might for the shore. He was using his left hand only; but
he was so well skilled in the use of the oar in this manner that he
was making rapid progress through the water.

[Illustration: “WITH THE GLASS IN HIS HAND, HE CLIMBED THE HIGHEST
PINE-TREE HE COULD FIND.” Page 225.]

By this time the watch had roused the ship’s company, and the voice of
Captain Brisbane was heard as he gave his orders for extinguishing the
fire. The deck was so hot under Louis’s feet that it made him step very
lively, and he jumped upon the rail to escape the heat. Just then he
observed that the door of the captain’s stateroom, occupying the after
part of the deck-house, was wide open. Rushing into this room, he saw
a door leading into the room where Kimpton had been confined. The lock
was secured to the outside of the door, and the prisoner had removed it
by taking out the screws with his knife or some other implement in his
possession.

The fire was just breaking through the deck in the wounded man’s room,
and Louis could remain there but a moment; but he had seen enough
to satisfy himself in what manner the prisoner had made his escape.
From the captain’s room the incendiary had probably passed through
the engine-room, where the engineer was sound asleep on the sofa, and
descended to the fire room, making his way aft to some place where he
found combustibles suited to his purpose.

As soon as he had finished his survey, Louis hastened forward to
assist, if he could, in putting out the fire. The steam pump had been
put in condition to be operated, and already was pouring water into
the hold, but in a place, Louis thought, where it would accomplish but
little in subduing the flames. He informed the captain that the fire
was coming up through the deck farther aft. At this moment the fireman
who had been sent below to start up the fires which had been banked in
the morning, came up, and declared that the heat and smoke had driven
him on deck. The hose was then carried farther aft; but the flames had
taken full possession of both staterooms.

It began to look like a hopeless case, for the water poured in upon the
fire seemed to have no appreciable effect. Those who were not at work
with the steam pump worked with buckets, and Louis labored as earnestly
as any of the hands. The flames were confined to the after part of the
steamer, and it was now too hot for any one to remain there.

“Stand by your engine, Mr. Waters!” shouted the captain, as he rushed
to the bow of the steamer, where he cast off the cable, and let it run
overboard.

“All right, Captain Brisbane,” replied the engineer, who was on duty at
the machine, attending to the steam pump. “I am not sure that the screw
will work, for something may have been burned away along the shaft.”

“Start her forward!” shouted the captain, as he ran up the ladder to
the pilot-house.

As soon as he had the wheel in his hands he rang one bell on the gong.
The engineer started the machine, and ascertained at once that the
screw was still in condition to work. The Phantom, with the flames
pouring out abaft the engine-room, went ahead, and the captain headed
her for the shore on the north side of the inlet, for that was the
nearest land. It was not more than a quarter of a mile distant. The
speed bell followed the stroke on the gong a moment later, and the
vessel went ahead as rapidly as her low pressure of steam would permit.

The steam pump was still at work, and the fires had been replenished by
the firemen before they had been driven from their post. Louis judged
that Captain Brisbane had given up the battle with the fire, and had
no hope of saving her. When the young millionaire found he could be
of no further service on the main deck, he joined the captain in the
pilot-house.

“This is a bad job for me,” said Captain Brisbane, when Louis had taken
his place opposite him at the wheel, where he could look through the
window at the shore. “The Phantom is insured, but my loss will be large
for me.”

“I am exceedingly sorry for it, captain,” replied Louis, whose first
impulse was to make it good to him; but he was not confident that Uncle
Moses would indorse his liberality, and he said nothing about it.

“I don’t see how the fire got such a start upon us,” added the captain.
“We had a large supply of light wood for kindling the fires abaft the
bunkers; but it was a good distance from the furnaces, and the fires
were banked.”

“Didn’t you see that man in a boat about a quarter of an hour ago?”
asked Louis, surprised that the captain had not yet ascertained the
origin of the fire.

Kimpton had reached the shore and disappeared. Louis had not been able
to observe his movements while he was at work on the main deck, and
did not know what had become of him. He had had time enough to reach
the shore, which was covered with stunted pines and firs, which were
sufficient to conceal him from observation.

“I haven’t noticed any boat; I was too busy with the fire to look
to the right or the left after I was roused from my sleep,” replied
Captain Brisbane to his passenger’s question. “What boat do you mean?”

“The first thing I saw after I got to the stern of the steamer was a
boat with a man in it, sculling with all his might with his left hand;
and that man was the prisoner whose wound you dressed this forenoon,”
added Louis, telling the whole story at once.

“Then the fire was set by that man,” said the captain, grinding his
teeth and shaking his head. “I should like to get hold of him again,
and I would not wait for judge or jury!”

Louis explained in what manner Kimpton had escaped from his room, and
how he supposed he had started the fire. Then he took the spy-glass
from the brackets, and directed it to the shore. He could see the boat,
but the man was not in sight.

“What time is it now, Captain Brisbane?” he asked.

“Just noon,” replied the captain, glancing at the clock on the after
bulkhead.

“At what time will the tide be up?”

“About half-past twelve.”

The Phantom was approaching the shore at full speed, and the captain
gave no further attention to his passenger. In a few minutes more the
forefoot ploughed into the sand, and the steamer stopped short in
a position where those on board could jump upon the dry land. The
violent hissing of the steam indicated that the engineer was still at
his post, hot as it was there. He had stopped the machine, and provided
against a possible explosion of the boiler.

For the next hour all hands were kept busy in saving their own effects
and such of the steamer’s as were movable. Louis had landed, taking his
valise, overcoat, the compass, and spy-glass from the pilot-house with
him. With the glass in his hand, he climbed the highest pine-tree he
could find, hoping that he might be able to discover the Maud at her
moorings; but he failed to make her out.

Then he directed his glass to the other side of the bay. An inward
trend of the shore-line enabled him to see across the water the
extremity of a projecting point of land on the peninsula where he
had landed. On this point was a man seated on the sand, apparently
very busy about something. This person must be Kimpton, for there was
not a house or a hut within some miles of the spot, and the nearest
life-saving station was south of the inlet. He had made good use of his
legs after he landed, and Louis wondered what he was doing.

He was not obliged to wait long for a solution of the problem,
for Kimpton hoisted a white cloth on a pole, and began to wave it
violently. A few moments later Louis discovered a schooner under full
sail, standing towards the inlet. The vessel was the Maud.




CHAPTER XXIX

LEFT ON A SANDBANK


The hull of the Phantom was now completely wrapped in flames, and it
was impossible to save anything more from her. The ship’s company had
worked hard from the time the fire was discovered, and they were tired
out after their exertions. They had seated themselves on the sand above
the beach, while Louis maintained his position in the pine-tree.

Whether or not Scoble had discovered that a steamer was blockading the
only egress from what he called “Dolphin Bay,” Louis had no knowledge.
He had not seen the Maud himself; but he had no doubt that Bickling’s
report that she was in the bay was correct. He had read Kimpton’s
letter from Scoble several times. In one sentence the writer said that
he expected his confederate to assist him in getting out of the bay if
he was pursued.

Kimpton appeared to have discharged this duty faithfully, for Louis did
not question that he had set fire to the Phantom for this purpose. But
there had been no communication between Scoble and his satellite so far
as he knew. He wondered very much if the captain of the Maud was aware
that the obstruction to his passage out to sea had been removed, for he
had got under way as soon as the destruction of the steamer had been
assured.

The Maud had a fresh breeze, and she was carrying a fore and a main
gaff-topsail in addition to her ordinary canvas. She had the wind fair
for her passage out. Those on board of her had plainly discovered
Kimpton’s signals, for the schooner had changed her course directly for
the point occupied by him. Louis watched the Maud with his glass, and
saw that she was getting out her boat.

Within an eighth of a mile of Kimpton, the schooner came to, and the
boat pulled for the shore. The confederate was conveyed on board, and
the Maud filled away. She was making at least eight knots an hour,
for Captain Ringgold had said this was her maximum speed, and she had
everything favorable.

His elevated position was no longer necessary to observe the vessel,
and Louis descended to the ground. He was the first to notify the
captain of the approach of the Maud. It made the heart of the young
millionaire beat violently when he considered the fact that his mother
was on board of the schooner, and he could do nothing to assist her, or
even to comfort her, prisoner as she was in the hands of her only enemy
on the face of the earth.

“She will get out in spite of anything we can do now,” said Captain
Brisbane when Louis had called his attention to the approach of the
Maud.

“But can’t you do anything? We have your boat still,” added Louis in a
pleading tone.

“Not a thing, Mr. Belgrave. I have lost my steamer in my efforts to
assist you. What more would you have of me?” asked the disconsolate
commander, as he glanced at the smouldering wreck of the Phantom;
and there was a good deal of bitterness and reproach in his tones, as
though he considered himself a much-abused man.

“Why cannot three or four of us go off in the boat and intercept the
Maud as she goes through the inlet?” asked Louis earnestly.

“We cannot!” replied the captain sharply. “If I had known that I was
to come down here on a fighting expedition, to overhaul a lot of
cut-throats, I would not have come; at least not without a squad of
policemen on board. What can you do if you go off in the boat, young
man?” demanded Captain Brisbane sternly, and with a sneer on his lips.

“If we could get on board we could gain possession of the vessel,”
replied Louis with spirit.

“Do you take me for a pirate, Mr. Belgrave? I would not attempt a thing
like that under any circumstances. Besides, Captain Ringgold directed
me to watch the Maud if I found her, and follow her if she got out of
any of these inlets. He told me not to meddle with her,” returned the
captain; and Louis had to admit to himself that he had the best of the
argument.

“My mother is on board of that schooner, and am I to stand here like a
mummy and do nothing to save her?” demanded Louis, somewhat excited.

“That is just what you are to do, young man. You cannot help yourself,
and I cannot help you. I could not do anything more than I have done if
it were my own mother they were carrying off,” replied Captain Brisbane
in a more pliable tone. “It would be madness to attempt to board a
vessel making eight or ten knots an hour with a jolly-boat. We should
all be shot down.”

“I am almost sure there is not a firearm of any kind on board of the
Maud, for I took care to obtain possession of all I could find.”

“I did not ship my men for this kind of duty, and they would mutiny if
I required them to engage in such a venture.”

It was useless to argue the matter with the captain, or attempt to
persuade him to embark in the foolhardy enterprise of capturing the
vessel, and Louis could only watch the Maud as she continued on her
course to the open sea. She kept well away from the point till she was
about west of the inlet where the wreck of the Phantom lay, and then
hauled her sheets till she had the wind over her port quarter. She
dashed on her course with all the speed she could make, keeping as far
to the southward as the depth of the water would permit.

By this time Kimpton had related his story, and Scoble was as wise as
his pursuers. Louis looked at the vessel as she passed through the
inlet, as both the bay and the passage into it are properly called,
with the spy-glass. Frinks was at the helm, and no other person could
be seen on her deck. Possibly the captain of the Maud feared that a
pistol shot might disable him or some other person on board, and he had
ordered all but the helmsman below; but the schooner was out of the
reach of any weapon in Louis’s possession, even if he had been disposed
to use one.

Sick at heart, Louis watched the Maud as she dashed through the
inlet, and laid her course to the south-east as soon as she had made
an offing. While Mrs. Belgrave was thankful in her heart that her son
was not on board of the schooner with her, he was groaning in spirit
that he was not with her. The only consolation he had was that Felix
McGavonty was at her side, or within call. Captain Ringgold had been
very sure that the poor lady would be subjected to no hardship or
indignity of any kind; and he was disposed to accept his assurance.

“Which the Maud is bound for Bermuda, sir, as you can see from the
course she is taking, sir,” said Bickling approaching him. “Which it is
what I ’ad the pleasure of informing you, sir.”

“I have no doubt she is bound to Bermuda,” replied Louis, very sadly.

“Which it is a great pity that we have no vessel to follow her in, sir.
With a fast yacht like the Blanche, sir, you could soon over’aul her,
sir.”

As the cook knew nothing about the Guardian-Mother, he could not have
informed Kimpton in regard to her. Louis was sure that nothing had
been said about the steam-yacht in the presence of either of the men
he had employed. Scoble could have obtained no information from his
confederate; and it was evident from the course he had shaped in sight
of the shore that he did not expect to be pursued any farther, now that
the Phantom had been destroyed.

“We shall soon have a vessel which is faster than the Blanche,
Bickling,” replied Louis after he had considered the subject for a few
minutes.

“Which I am very ’appy to ’ear, sir,” added the cook; and he seemed to
be really pleased. “Which I am very sorry, sir, that Flounder turned
out to be a bad man, sir.”

“What did he wish you to do when he knocked you down?” asked Louis.

“Which he wanted me to go on board of the Maud, sir, and not tell you
or the captain of the steamer that the Maud she was in there, sir,”
answered Bickling. “Which I wouldn’t do, sir; no, sir, not for the
crown of Hingland, sir, to a gentleman as ’as used me kindly, as you
’ave, sir.”

Louis had no doubt in regard to the honesty and fidelity of the cook;
but his courage and intelligence were other things. The captain
interrupted the conversation, which was of no importance at this stage
of the adventure.

“The question just now is as to what we are to do next, Mr. Belgrave,”
said Captain Brisbane, as he seated himself by the side of Louis.

“I am compelled to answer in your own words, ‘Not a thing,’” replied
the young man. “We might as well be on a desolate island as here.”

“Not quite so bad as that, for we have saved from the wreck provisions
enough to last us two or three days. We have the boat, and we could
cross to the other side of the inlet, and find our way to the
life-saving station, or we could row up the river to the town where
Scoble mailed his letter to Kimpton.”

“I don’t expect to suffer from hunger or cold, or anything else but
impatience at being in such a desolate place while that villain is
conveying my mother away from me.”

“You ought to be old enough to do without your mother,” added the
captain rather coarsely, “I was ordered to remain on this coast by
Captain Ringgold until he came himself in a steamer. Do you know when
he will be here, Mr. Belgrave?”

“He did not know himself, and therefore he could not tell me.”

“I doubt if any vessel will come into this bay in the next month. All
we can do is to make the best of our situation. I suppose we might make
a signal that would attract the attention of some vessel outside that
would take us off.”

“You can do that if you wish, Captain Brisbane, but I shall remain here
till Captain Ringgold takes me off,” replied Louis decidedly.

“He may not come for a week,” suggested the captain.

“Perhaps not; in that case I shall remain here a week.”

“You are not sure that Captain Ringgold will find you here.”

“I shall wait and see if he don’t, at any rate.”

The captain took the spy-glass, and directed it out at sea.

“There are two schooners coming up from the southward,” said he, still
pointing the glass.

“Let them come,” added Louis.

“As I said, Captain Ringgold may not come here for a week: I don’t feel
as though I ought to keep my men here on this sandbank any longer than
is absolutely necessary,” added the captain, calling his mate to him.

“Of course you will do what you think best, Captain Brisbane,” replied
Louis coldly.

The captain instructed the mate to rig a signal, and set it on the
highest point of land in the vicinity. The order was executed at
once; and the signal floated in the air till nearly sundown, when it
attracted the attention of a tug-boat headed to the northward, which
came within half a mile of the shore.

The little steamer, which had been towing a vessel down to Barnegat
Inlet, ran her nose into the sandbank and hailed the party. He proved
to be a friend of Captain Brisbane, and was all ready to take him and
his ship’s company to New York, with all they had saved from the wreck.

“I don’t like to leave you here, Mr. Belgrave, but if you insist upon
remaining, I can’t help myself,” said the captain, when all but him had
gone on board of the tug.

“Don’t disturb yourself about me, Captain Brisbane,” replied Louis very
stiffly.

“Very well, young man. Come along, Bickling!” added the captain.

“Which I don’t leave the young gentleman, sir,” replied the cook.

The remainder of the party hastened on board of the Rocket; and she
steamed away, leaving Louis and the cook on the sandbank.




CHAPTER XXX

A HUNGRY MILLIONAIRE


It was a desolate place where Captain Brisbane had abandoned Louis
Belgrave; but the latter did not find himself in a desperate strait, or
compare himself with Robinson Crusoe. He had been supplied with about
half a cold ham, a quantity of hard bread, and a breaker of water, so
that he and his companion were not likely to perish with hunger or
thirst. The piece of sailcloth, rigged on a pole which the mate had
prepared as a signal, had been left. A vessel in the distance could be
hailed, and at worst a walk of six or eight miles would take them to an
inhabited locality.

“Which we may ’ave to stay ’ere a week, sir,” suggested Bickling, after
he had walked about the sand hills for a time.

“It is possible, but I don’t believe we shall,” replied Louis
cheerfully, for he had made up his mind to be contented, however long
he was compelled to remain; and the only thing that troubled him was
the absence of his mother.

“Which it is no worse for me, sir, than it is for you as is a
gentleman, sir,” added Bickling, gently opening his mouth in a grin
which extended nearly from ear to ear, which was a surprise to his
employer, for the cook generally wore a very solemn expression.

“It is about the same thing for both of us.”

“’Ow shall we hever get hoff, sir?” asked Bickling, looking earnestly
into the face of his companion, as though he was deeply interested in
the expected reply.

“I expect a steam-yacht to take me off; but I do not know when she will
come,” answered Louis, who cast frequent glances at the ocean, though
he hardly expected to see the Guardian-Mother so soon.

“A steam-yacht, sir!” exclaimed the cook. “And ’ow big might she be?”

“About six hundred tons.”

“Which she is owned by Captain Ringgold, the fine gentleman as was on
board of the Maud with you, sir?” asked Bickling, opening his eyes very
wide.

“No; I shall be the owner of her myself, I think.”

“Which it is you, sir, as owns a steam-yacht of six ’undred tons!”
exclaimed the cook, rising from the ground on which both were seated,
and involuntarily removing his hat.

“Nothing very strange about that, is there?” asked the yacht owner with
an expansive smile.

“Which you are a very young gentleman to own a steam-yacht as big as
that!” added Bickling, looking his companion all over as he would a
live lobster. “Can it be possible? Which it must be as you says so. You
must be as rich as Grease-us, sir.”

“I shall not have to go to the almshouse this year. What is your name,
Bickling?”

“Which it is Bickling, sir; and I never denies my name, sir,” replied
the cook, evidently very much surprised at the question.

“I mean your front name.”

“Which Bickling is my back name, is it, sir? Which my front name must
be Baldwin, sir; and people as I meets most calls me Baldy,” responded
the cook, taking off his soft hat, and passing his hand over the top of
his head, which had no more hair on it than a pumpkin.

“Very well, my friend,” said Louis, laughing at the close fit of the
name to the head. “Which you will not think I am impolite if I call you
Baldy?”

“’Ow could a gentleman like you be impolite, sir? Which you can call me
as it suits your fancy, Mr. Belgrave.”

As he had nothing else to do, Louis questioned his companion in regard
to his previous history. He had been a servant till he was thirty-five,
which explained his obsequious manners, and his slavish submission
to those in authority, and to well-dressed people in general. He had
worked about the kitchens of gentlemen and clubs till he had learned
to cook. He had made two voyages as cook, and had gone to Baltimore in
that capacity on board of a steamer.

He had worked in a restaurant there a year; but he could not get the
“’ang of Hamerican ways,” and wished to get back to England. For this
reason he had shipped as cook with Scoble. He had no money, for he had
been too simple to make a good bargain with his late employer, and had
worked for next to nothing.

[Illustration: “THERE IS A STEAMER HEADED THIS WAY, AND IT MAY BE THE
GUARDIAN-MOTHER.” Page 241.]

“I intend to go to Bermuda in the Guardian-Mother, Baldy,” said Louis.

“The Guardian-Mother, sir!” exclaimed the cook. “And who is she, if you
please, sir? Which I never ’eard of ’er before, sir.”

“That is the name of my steam-yacht.”

“Which it is a very hodd name, sir.”

“It is the name by which I think of my mother, the lady who is a
prisoner on board of the Maud.”

“Then I takes hoff my ’at to the Guardian-Mother,” added Bickling,
suiting the action to the words.

“But she is going to Bermuda in pursuit of the Maud; and perhaps you do
not wish to go there, Baldy.”

“Which I should be very ’appy to go there, sir, if I can go with you,
sir.”

“I shall go to England sooner or later in the Guardian-Mother, though I
shall probably spend the coming winter in the West Indies, and it may
be a year or more before the steamer goes to Europe.”

“Which it is all the same to me, sir. You ’ave been very good to me,
sir, better as any other man now on the earth, sir. I should be ’appy
to follow you all over the world, sir, wherever you go, never axing no
questions, sir. I am not good for much, and I am the biggest coward as
lives on the face of the footstool, sir,” replied the cook in a rather
more fawning tone and manner than usual.

“Not quite so bad as that, Baldy. You had pluck enough to refuse to go
on board of the Maud when Flounder tried to make you do so,” suggested
Louis.

“Which he wanted me to be faithless to you, sir, and I was too big a
coward to do that,” answered the cook, with an extended grin. “But he
would ’ave murdered me if you had not been near.”

“All right, Baldy; you behaved very well, and I shall try to find a
place for you on board of the Guardian-Mother,” replied Louis, who felt
that he was under obligations to his companion for his fidelity.

It was growing dark on the sandbank; and it became a question to the
young millionaire how he was to pass the night. He was confident that
Captain Ringgold would not come for him in the darkness, for he would
have but little chance of finding him. After the conversation Baldy
walked down to the water where the wreck of the Phantom lay, while
Louis was seeking a place to sleep among the pines. The fire in the
steamer appeared to have smouldered out. The west wind had driven the
flames to the after part of the hull; and the crew had thrown a great
quantity of water on the forecastle while they were saving their own
and the vessel’s effects.

Baldy went on board of the wreck by a gang-plank which had been left
in its place. He soon discovered that the fire had not extended to
the forecastle, prevented in its passage by the water above, and by
an iron bulkhead below. He descended to the quarters of the crew,
which had been stripped of everything movable, though some dirty
coverlets remained in the bunks. Probably Captain Brisbane knew that
the forecastle had not been burned out, for he and his men had been
on board of the wreck an hour or two before they were taken from the
sandbank by the Rocket.

The cook called Louis, and informed him of the condition of the
forecastle. It was not a bad place to sleep, and it was too dark for
the young man to see the dirt and grease that prevailed there. The cook
had given him his supper before dark; and he found that his appetite
was not impaired, for he partook heartily of the stinted fare. It was
a dry meal for a millionaire; and Louis was no better off with his
million and a half than his simple companion with nothing at all.

He turned in; and, while he was thinking of his Guardian-Mother now far
out to sea, and his Guardian-Mother he expected to see the next day, he
dropped asleep. He had not slept as much as a boy of his age required
during the past three days, and he was very tired after the exciting
labors of the day. He had covered himself with a greasy comforter, and
he did not wake once during the night.

“Which it is about sunrise, if you please, sir,” said Baldy at the side
of the bunk.

“Thank you for calling me, Baldy,” replied Louis, leaping hastily from
the berth when he saw the daylight at the open scuttle; for it was time
for him to be on the watch for the steam-yacht.

He had no toilet to make, but he took a plunge in the clear waters
that washed the sandy beach. His first care was to look out upon the
ocean; and he missed the glass he had used the day before, for Captain
Brisbane had left him nothing but a scanty stock of provisions. He saw
a steamer headed to the south far out to sea, and he watched her till
she disappeared in the distance. Baldy gave him his breakfast, which
was just what his supper had been; and when he ate the hard, dry ham,
and the harder shipbread, he did not feel at all like a millionaire at
sixteen.

It would require too much space to relate the tame incidents of Louis’s
stay on the sandbank. All day long he watched and waited to see a
steamer approach the desolate locality, but none came. Several small
craft came within a mile or two of the shore, but nothing that looked
like the Guardian-Mother. He and Baldy slept another night in the
forecastle of the wreck.

Again his slumbers were deep and profound, and the cook called him at
daylight. He hastened to the sand-hill which afforded him the best
view of the ocean. No steamer was in sight; breakfast and dinner were
served, but the scanty stock of eatables was very nearly exhausted.
Baldy was blessed with a tremendous appetite, and he had done double
his share in reducing the supply. For his sake rather than his own
Louis put himself on short allowance, in spite of his companion’s
protest. By dinner-time he was quite hungry; but he ate next to
nothing, for the shipbread was all gone, and the ham was hardly
eatable. He was a hungry millionaire by four in the afternoon, his
stomach being badly pinched by the want of food. Baldy reasoned with
him, and wished him to eat all that was left at noon; but he could beat
the cook in an argument every time, and compelled him to finish the
provisions.

At four o’clock in the afternoon Louis was sound asleep on the
sand-hill, where he had laid down, actually suffering from the pain of
an empty stomach. The change of position relieved, him, and, worn out
with watching and anxiety, as well as by the loss of his usual meals,
kind Nature had come to his aid in the form of sleep.

“Wake up, if you please, Mr. Belgrave; which there is a steamer headed
this way, and it may be the Guardian-Mother, sir,” said Baldy, taking
him by the hand.

Louis sprang to his feet as quickly as his feeble condition would
permit. The words of the cook made him forget that he was hungry. He
did not believe that he was starving, though he had not eaten a “square
meal” since the last one he had taken on board of the Blanche. The news
which Baldy had given him was quite sufficient to make a new being of
him.

From the sand-hill he saw a steamer feeling her way with the lead
towards the shore. She was not half a mile distant, and she was a
magnificent craft. Within a quarter of a mile of the shore she stopped
her screw. A boat was lowered into the water, and pulled for the inlet
with eight men at the oars, and an officer in the stern sheets. Louis
had fixed the signal on the sand-hill, and it had been seen.




CHAPTER XXXI

THE MAGNIFICENT STEAMER


Louis Belgrave watched the boat, which was an elegant affair, as it
approached the shore. When it had accomplished half the distance, the
officer in the stern sheets took off his cap, and waved it vigorously
in the air. Then the abandoned millionaire recognized the stalwart form
of Captain Ringgold, and he returned the salute as earnestly as the
other made it.

When he saw where the boat intended to land, Louis rushed to the
shore and awaited its arrival. The men pulled with the precision of
men-of-wars-men. At a short distance from the land up went the eight
oars like a piece of clock-work. The bowman took his place in the
fore-sheets with a boat-hook in his hand, and fended off as the keel
ploughed into the soft sand. The boat looked like a fairy barge. The
stern sheets were upholstered with crimson velvet; and the owner of
the Guardian-Mother had never seen anything so luxurious, even in the
cutters of the Blanche.

Captain Ringgold rose from his seat as soon as the keel touched the
sand, and made his way to the bow, from which he leaped to the shore
like a boy. Louis was there to receive him; and if there were tears
in his eyes, they were tears of gladness, though perhaps his empty
stomach was to some extent responsible for them. The captain rushed
upon him with both hands extended, which Louis grasped with an energy
which his feelings did not belie.

“I am exceedingly glad to see you, Mr. Belgrave!” exclaimed the
captain, wringing the hands of the hungry millionaire.

“And I am heartily rejoiced to see you, Captain Ringgold,” replied
Louis, wiping the tears from his eyes, though he could not for the life
of him have told for what he was weeping.

“But what is the matter with you, my dear boy? you are actually crying.
Have you any bad news from your mother?” asked the captain, who was now
the commander of the Guardian-Mother, though he had never been formally
invested with that office.

“I have heard nothing at all from her, sir,” answered Louis in a
choking voice.

“What is the matter, then?”

“Which the poor young gentleman is ’alf starved, sir, if you please,”
interposed Baldy.

“Not quite so bad as that, captain,” added Louis, trying to laugh. “I
confess that I am hungry, and that I feel quite faint.”

“Poor fellow! I don’t understand it! But no talk till you feel better,
my dear boy,” said Captain Ringgold, full of sympathy. “Only one
question, and then not another word. Where is the Maud?”

“She sailed from this place day before yesterday at noon, and headed to
the south-east as soon as she got out into deep water,” replied Louis.
“She is forty-eight hours on her way to Bermuda.”

“That’s all now!” exclaimed the commander decidedly.

“I am able to talk, captain; I don’t need any nursing. I have not lived
very well since we left the Blanche; and I have eaten next to nothing
to-day, for the ham was not good, and the hardbread was dirty and
smoky.”

“Have you anything to go on board of the steamer, Louis?”

“Nothing but my valise and overcoat.”

Captain Ringgold ordered a couple of men in the boat to assist Louis to
his place in the stern sheets, and a couple more to put his baggage on
board. While they were doing so, he walked over to the inlet, followed
by Baldy.

“If you please, captain, will you ’ave the kindness to take me on
board of the Guardian-Mother? for the young gentleman as owns her--Mr.
Belgrave--told me as ’ow I should go with him,” said Baldy, who perhaps
thought the commander had a veto on the promises of the juvenile owner.

“If Mr. Belgrave said you were to go on board, that is enough, in spite
of any other person,” replied the captain, laughing at the simplicity
of the cook. “I should not be likely in any case to leave you, or any
other human being, in such a desolate place as this sandbank. I don’t
understand this business at all. What is that wreck on the shore of the
passage through?”

“That is the wreck of the Phantom, which she was burned the day we got
’ere by a hagent of Captain Scoble,” replied Baldy.

The commander of the steamer realized that there was a history to the
expedition he had sent down the coast to look for the Maud, but he did
not care to hear it mangled by the cook; and he hastened back to the
boat, anxious now only to relieve the discomfort, if not the distress,
of the owner of the Guardian-Mother. He put Baldy in the fore-sheets,
and took his place in the stern.

“Up oars!” said the captain, who seemed to be in the practice of
naval discipline; and at the command six of the eight oars went up to
a perpendicular position. “Shove off!” he added; and the two bowmen
pushed the boat from the sand into deep water. “Let fall!” and the oars
dropped into the water as one. “Stern all! Give way!”

The barge, for that was the name of the owner’s boat, backed away
from the shore, then came about, and pulled for the steamer. Captain
Ringgold said nothing; and Louis did not feel like talking, for his
stomach was still bothering him. He did not feel quite at home in the
luxurious furnishings of the barge; but he looked the men at the oars
over, and thought he had never seen a finer-looking set of seamen.
They were all dressed in uniform, and on their naval caps were ribbons
bearing the name of the steamer, Guardian-Mother, in gilt letters. The
shipmaster had certainly attended to the smaller details of the fitting
out of the vessel.

As the boat passed the bows of the steam-yacht, Louis discovered the
name again; and he wondered at the expedition the captain had used
in preparing the craft, though he had been thus occupied for three
days. The boat went to the after-gangway, where the steps had been
rigged out; and the commander assisted his youthful owner to mount to
the deck. Louis was inclined to pause and admire the appearance of
everything that met his gaze, but the considerate captain hurried him
to the cabin.

“I am afraid you will get sick out of this affair, Louis,” said the
commander very tenderly, as he seated him on a sofa. “I am sorry to
find you in this feeble condition.”

“You need not be at all concerned about me, Captain Ringgold. I shall
be all right as soon as I have had something to eat,” replied Louis.
“I always have trouble when I go without my regular food; but I am not
starving, and I am not in the least injured.”

“Sparks!” called the captain, and a colored steward came out of
his pantry at the summons. “This young gentleman is the owner of
the steamer. Get him some of the soup we had for lunch as quick as
possible.”

Sparks bowed low to the owner, and then rushed out of the cabin to
execute his mission.

“Something not too heavy is best for you to begin upon. You need a
little nursing before you can come out all right, my boy. I have to
get underway now, and lay the course for Bermuda; but I will send Mrs.
Blossom to look out for you, for you need a woman’s care,” added the
captain.

“Mrs. Blossom!” exclaimed Louis, astonished to hear the name of Uncle
Moses’s housekeeper.

“She is the stewardess of the steamer. I went to see Squire Scarburn
yesterday to ask him to recommend a woman to attend to the wants of
your mother, after we have recovered her. Mrs. Blossom, who is the
widow of a sea-captain, and has been to sea, heard me, and volunteered
her services, saying that she needed a sea-voyage to restore her
health. The squire consented, and that is why she happens to be on
board.”

The captain called the woman, and then left the cabin. Mrs. Blossom
was delighted to see another Parkite on board, and sorry to find him
in such a feeble condition. While Sparks was setting the table for his
lunch, Louis explained what ailed him, and what had caused it. The
good lady was quite sure she could relieve him, and she went to the
pantry, from which she presently returned with a potion in a glass. She
insisted that he should take it, and he did so. It was very hot, and it
warmed up his stomach at once.

The owner seated himself at the table at the summons of the steward.
The dishes and the table-ware were of the finest quality, and Louis
was bewildered by the magnificence which surrounded him on all sides.
In fact, he began to feel something like a millionaire after his late
experience on the sandbank. The soup was very nice; but Mrs. Blossom
would not permit him to take anything else, except some toast and some
fancy biscuits.

He ate heartily of the soup, and then he claimed he was entirely well.
His pain was all gone, for his malady was that unpoetical one which old
ladies call “wind in the stomach” when babies have it. He was burning
with curiosity to see the magnificent craft of which he had become the
owner, and of which he had not seen even the outside till he left the
sandbank.

“No, Mr. Belgrave; you must not go on deck yet. You must keep quiet for
a little while at least, until you are sure you are quite well,” said
the stewardess.

“I am sure of it now, Mrs. Blossom. I am not a baby.”

“But you have wind on the stomach all the same,” laughed she. “But here
comes the captain, and you must mind him till you are perfectly well.”

Louis assured the commander that he was quite well; he had eaten plenty
of the soup, and he felt like a new man. He wanted to see the steamer.
What was the use of being a millionaire, and owning a steam-yacht of
six hundred tons, if he could not see her?

“You may look the cabins over first; and then if you are all right,
I will take you on deck, and introduce the officers to you,” replied
Captain Ringgold, after taking a careful survey of his young friend.
“We are now in the main cabin, and it is sometimes called the state
cabin. It is the apartment of the owner. It has four staterooms on each
side, two of which have bathrooms attached to them, so that the owner
can be as comfortable as at the finest hotel in the city of New York.
This cabin is nearly in the centre of the ship, where the motion is the
least perceptible.”

Louis looked into all the staterooms. The two forward ones on each side
were very large, and were as elegantly fitted up as the cabin itself.
At the after end of the cabin there was a broad staircase leading to
the social hall on deck. At the stern of the vessel was another cabin,
fitted up handsomely, and having a stateroom and four berths on each
side, but for which there seemed to be no use at present.

“How do you feel, Mr. Belgrave?” asked the captain, after he had shown
the state cabin to his owner.

“Very well indeed, sir,” replied Louis. “But why do you call me Mr.
Belgrave? You have never been in the habit of mistering me.”

“Sparks!” called the captain to the cabin steward. “Go on deck, and ask
Mr. Boulong to call as many of the officers as can be spared from their
duties to the quarter-deck.”

“I may call you Louis when we are alone, but everybody on board must
call the owner Mr. Belgrave; for it would be highly improper for any
officer or seaman to address him by his first name, or to leave off the
handle to the last one,” the captain explained.

“Well, I suppose I can stand it if you and the officers can,” replied
Louis, who felt well enough to laugh by this time.

“I have served my time in the navy, though I was a young man then; but
on board ship a certain amount of ceremony is necessary. Even on board
merchantmen the mates are called mister.”

They commenced the ascent of the grand staircase together.




CHAPTER XXXII

A FORMAL PRESENTATION


Louis and the captain stopped in the social hall at the head of the
stairs, with a door on each side of them. It was provided with divans
in every practicable place, and contained quite a library. Passing
through one of the doors, they entered what was called the _boudoir_.
It was quite a roomy apartment, with an upright piano between the
doors, and the after part was a half-circle.

The entire sides and round end were composed of thick plate-glass, so
that the _boudoir_ had the appearance of a conservatory, and it had a
stand of plants in the centre. It was furnished with arm-chairs and
_tête-à-têtes_. The captain explained that the windows were provided
with shutters, which could be put on the whole or a part of the
openings in very stormy weather, though he thought they would seldom be
needed.

“You ought to be able to make yourself comfortable in this _boudoir_,”
said Captain Ringgold, when the owner had examined the room. “It is the
finest apartment I ever saw on board of a vessel, not excepting the
steam-yacht of the Queen of England.”

“I had no idea of such magnificence before,” replied Louis with
enthusiasm. “I am sure I can make myself a great deal happier here
than I was on that sandbank. You mentioned the name of Mr. Boulong
while we were below.”

“Formerly of the Blanche,” answered the commander with a smile. “I
found that the Guardian-Mother had a full crew on board, selected with
the greatest care by Colonel Singfield himself, with the exception of a
captain and first officer, who had accepted other positions rather than
wait for the sale of the steamer. I had decided to take the command
myself, if my owner did not object.”

“Of course your owner would not object,” laughed Louis. “You are the
gentleman above all others I should have selected if it had been left
to me.”

“Then I am all right, and I am sure we shall be friends. I shall follow
all your directions as though you were an older person than I am; but I
suppose you will allow me to advise you when necessary, especially on
nautical subjects.”

“On all subjects, Captain Ringgold; and I shall be infinitely obliged
to you for your counsels,” added the owner warmly.

“Squire Scarburn has unlimited confidence in you, Louis, and he did not
even instruct me to look out for you.”

“But I hope you will do so all the same.”

“I don’t intend to treat you as though I were your schoolmaster. I
called upon Mr. Woolridge yesterday to thank him for the use of the
Blanche; and when I mentioned that I was in need of a mate, he at
once suggested Mr. Boulong. He had been captain of a steamer; but his
wife was very sick, and he had been forced to resign his place. He
deserved a better place than mate of a yacht like the Blanche, and he
recommended him so warmly that I took him. He is a thorough sailor, and
understands his duties as officer; in fact, he is competent to command
the Guardian-Mother.”

“I like him very much, and I am glad you took him.”

The captain opened one of the doors of the _boudoir_, and they passed
out to the main deck, where all the officers except the second engineer
were assembled. They were all dressed in yacht uniforms, looked very
trim and nice, and Louis was disposed to fall in love with them all in
a bunch.

“Mr. Belgrave, you are already acquainted with Mr. Boulong; but I have
the pleasure of presenting him to you as the first officer of the
Guardian-Mother,” said Captain Ringgold, as they confronted the mate.

“I am very glad indeed to meet you in that capacity on board of this
steamer, Mr. Boulong,” added Louis, as he gave his hand to him. “We
have been friends in the past, and I am sure we shall be in the future.”

“Thank you, Mr. Belgrave; I shall endeavor to do my duty faithfully.
Allow me to congratulate you on being the owner of the finest
steam-yacht that ever sailed out of New York,” replied the chief
officer.

“Mr. Belgrave, allow me to introduce Mr. P. Lord Gaskette, the second
officer of the steamer, who is not only a gentleman and a scholar, but
a full-fledged sailor,” continued the commander very pleasantly. “He is
a graduate of Columbia College, speaks French, German, Spanish, Greek,
Latin, Hebrew, and Dutch like an organ-grinder.”

“I am very happy to know you, Mr. Gaskette, and I certainly ought to
appreciate your linguistic accomplishments,” replied Louis, as he shook
hands with the second officer. “I have no doubt your seamanship is
equal to your skill in the languages.”

“Hardly, Mr. Belgrave, for the captain has overdone himself on the
languages,” added Mr. Gaskette, as he took the offered hand of the
owner. “I was a teacher of languages when my health failed. I have been
to sea for twelve years now, three of them as first officer of a ship.
I shall be happy to do everything in my power to make your life on
board of the Guardian-Mother as agreeable as possible.”

“Thank you, Mr. Gaskette; I have no doubt we shall be friends,” said
Louis in French.

“Mr. Amos Shafter, the chief engineer of the steamer, Mr. Belgrave,”
continued the captain.

“I am glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Shafter; and I have no doubt
we have the best man afloat in charge of the engine,” returned the
owner. “I hope the engine is as good as the engineer.”

“I thank you for your good opinion, made up in advance, of the
engineer; and no better engine was ever put into the hull of a vessel
than that of the Guardian-Mother,” replied Mr. Shafter, as Louis shook
his hand like that of an old friend; and the chief went for the second
engineer.

“This is Mr. Sage, the chief steward of the steamer, Mr. Belgrave. He
is a wise man, as his name indicates, though it also suggests sage and
onions for the stuffing of the goose he will sometimes serve at your
table,” the captain proceeded.

“I am happy to know you, Mr. Sage; for I know what an important person
you are on board of a vessel,” replied Louis, taking his hand. “I have
been starved on a sandbank for the last three days, and I am sure I
shall fully appreciate the service you will render.”

“I shall do my best to suit you,” replied the chief steward quietly.

“The last I shall introduce at present is here now. Mr. Belgrave,
Mr. Sentrick, the second engineer, qualified for any position in his
department.”

“I am glad to see you, Mr. Sentrick; and I shall sleep without the fear
of being blown up when the second is the equal of the first engineer in
all except the name.”

“Thank you, Mr. Belgrave: you are very kind to speak so handsomely of
me, but I am still a pupil of Mr. Shafter, for he can teach me a great
deal that I don’t know,” replied the second engineer modestly.

“Now you know all the officers, Mr. Belgrave; and I have no doubt you
will find them all ready and willing to do all in their power in your
service,” added the commander; and all the officers touched their caps
and bowed to the owner and to the captain, as they walked forward.
“Now, Mr. Belgrave, we will look the vessel over.”

The house on deck extended from the _boudoir_ to the forecastle; and
the captain showed his owner into all the rooms, beginning with the
staterooms of the engineers. Then they visited the engine and fire
rooms, where Mr. Shafter did the honors. Forward of the smoke-stack was
the galley, as Louis had already learned to call the kitchen. It was
fitted up appropriately, and was as neat as a pin in every part.

“Mr. Belgrave, I have the honor to present to you the chief cook of the
Guardian-Mother, Monsieur Odervie; and I am sorry I can’t say it in
French,” said the commander, laughing.

“I am very glad to see you, Monsieur Odervie,” answered Louis, taking
his hand, which the cook wiped diligently on his apron for this part of
the ceremony; and the owner spoke his speech in French, which delighted
the official of the galley. “Your soup has made a new man of me, after
starving for three days on a sandbank; and I know you will be one of my
most valued friends.”

“Thank you, Monsieur Belgraf. Pardon, _Monsieur le capitaine, mais vous
savez bien_”--

“No, I don’t _savez_ a bit!” exclaimed the captain.

“You have promised me another man. _C’est trop pour cuire pour tout
l’équipage._”

“He says it is too much to cook for the whole crew,” interposed Louis.

“He is quite right; but I had not time to look up another cook after I
learned that one was wanted,” replied the captain.

“So much the better!” exclaimed Louis. “There is Baldy; and I promised
to find a place for him if I could.”

“Baldy?” added the commander interrogatively.

“Bickling, the cook of the Maud, who came on board with me.”

“All right! Come here, Baldy,” called the captain.

“Which I am ’ere, sir,” replied the cook of the Maud.

“Can you talk French, Baldy?” asked the commander, apparently to make
sport of him.

“Which I can a little, sir.”

“You can!” exclaimed Louis.

“Which I lived two years in Paris with my master, and I had to pick up
some of it,” replied Baldy.

Louis and the cook spoke to him in French, and the examination was
satisfactory, though the candidate had forgotten some of what he had
learned; in fact, Louis suggested that he could speak French better
than he did English. But the chief cook could speak English when he was
so disposed.

“You are appointed second cook of the Guardian-Mother, Baldy; and you
will obey Monsieur Odervie in all things,” said the captain.

“Which I will do, sir; and I thank you, captain, with all my ’eart,”
replied Baldy, taking off his hat and bowing very low. “Which I
thank you, too, Mr. Belgrave, which you are the owner of the finest
steam-yacht that ever floated on the ocean.”

Forward of the galley was the ice-house, and then the smoking-room,
for which the present owner had no use. The adjoining rooms, with the
foremast between them, were the staterooms of the first and second
officers; and Louis declared that either of them was good enough for
him.

“This is my room, Mr. Belgrave,” said the commander, as he led the way
into the next room.

“I thought you would take one of the staterooms in the cabin,”
suggested Louis.

“I don’t intend to be an ornamental captain merely, and I desire to
be near my work. For the present, while you are alone, I will take my
meals with you, if you invite me to do so,” replied the commander.

These apartments consisted of two rooms, one of which appeared to be
the captain’s office, for it was provided with a desk, and several
bookcases; and the other was his sleeping-apartment. A door opened
from the former into the pilot-house, which was quite a large room.
The wheel, the binnacles, and everything else, were of the most
approved modern type. The vessel was steered by steam, and a uniformed
quartermaster was at the wheel.

“Spokes, this is Mr. Belgrave, our owner,” said the captain; and the
man saluted him without any speech.

They passed out to the forecastle, where sixteen men and the boatswain
were assembled. The commander presented the owner: they all touched
their caps, and gave three hearty cheers. This finished the ceremonies;
and every man on board, except the firemen, knew “Mr. Belgrave.” The
young millionaire was then conducted to the captain’s room.




CHAPTER XXXIII

ON BOARD THE GUARDIAN-MOTHER


Louis was tired enough to enjoy the arm-chair the captain gave him
in his room, for he had begun to feel that he needed another plate
of soup, and he said as much to his friend. The touch of a button
connected with the electric bells brought Sparks to the apartment, and
the soup was ordered. It came in a few minutes, neatly arranged with
biscuits on a tray, and the owner enjoyed it.

“I have gone through all the formalities, Louis,” said Captain
Ringgold, when the refreshment was disposed of. “I have not yet learned
how you happened to be left alone on that sand-spit, for I was in a
hurry to make you at home on the Guardian-Mother.”

Louis felt quite at home; and he related all the details of his
residence on the sandbank, including the adventure with Flounder, the
burning of the Phantom, and the escape of the Maud.

“Brisbane left you on that sand-spit!” exclaimed the commander,
springing out of his chair. “It was his own fault that his steamer was
burned, for he let his crew go to sleep, when he ought to have kept
part of them awake.”

“I thought of paying him for the loss of the Phantom,” added Louis.

“Not a red cent! That man is under obligations to me, and he deserted
you on a sand-spit, leaving you hardly food enough to keep you from
starving!”

“He did not expect that I should have to remain there so long, as I did
not myself,” replied Louis.

“Didn’t you tell me he said he might have to stay there a week, and
that was his reason for abandoning you?” demanded the captain sharply.

“He was not entirely consistent.”

“I told Brisbane all it was necessary for him to know, and charged him
to see that no harm came to you. I will never trust him with a mud-scow
again.”

Captain Ringgold then explained that he had been obliged to pay the
full sum he had named for the steam-yacht, which was many thousand
dollars less than she had cost. He had used all the haste he could in
getting her ready to sail, but various matters had delayed him.

“The Maud has gone to Bermuda beyond a doubt,” he continued, “and your
mother is still on board of her. I don’t believe any harm will come to
her; but we want her on board of the Guardian-Mother.”

“I do, at any rate,” added Louis.

“And so do I, my boy; and I think she will be happy on board.”

“But I do not quite see how we can reclaim her,” suggested the owner.

“We will find a way. I am glad you put a bullet in that beggar who
burned the Phantom; and it is a pity you did not put it in another
place.”

“I am glad the wound was no worse. I knew he was a reckless fellow, and
when he pointed his revolver at my head, I fired because I was afraid
he would do so,” pleaded Louis.

“You did quite right, my boy; if you had not fired when you did, you
might not have been here to tell the story,” added Captain Ringgold.
“But you have not told me, Louis, how you like the Guardian-Mother.”

“How would it be possible not to like her? She is magnificent beyond
any conception I had of a steamer. In fact, I am so bewildered that I
cannot express myself in regard to her,” replied Louis with enthusiasm.
“Taking her cost and the expense of running her into consideration, I
cannot help feeling that it is a very extravagant outlay for a boy like
me, only sixteen years old.”

“But you are abundantly able to own such a vessel, and to pay the
expense of keeping her in commission all the year round, Louis,” said
the captain very seriously, as he took from his desk a paper on which
he had estimated the probable cost of running the vessel. “If she
should cost you fifty thousand dollars a year, she will leave you a
large margin of your income.”

“I am sure I should not have thought of such a thing as buying her if
it had not been for the service she is to render me in recovering my
poor dear mother,” continued Louis, as the tears started in his eyes.
“That villain might have led me all over the world in a sailing yacht;
and I can truly say that I asked for the purchase of the steamer solely
on account of my mother. I should not have dared to ask for such a
craft for my own pleasure.”

“And yet you might well have done so. With an income of seventy
thousand dollars a year, you can afford such a luxury. But I do not
look upon the vessel as a plaything for your pleasure and amusement.
I think Uncle Moses told me you had fitted for college. Now, Louis,
you must make the Guardian-Mother your university. You ought to have
on board such instructors as you need, though one may be enough, and
pursue your studies just as though you were a regular student in
Columbia College.”

“This is a new idea,” replied Louis.

“But it is a good one. I do not believe you ought to give all your time
to your own amusement, even though it may consist of so reasonable a
recreation as sight-seeing in the various countries of the world. You
can have your mother on board with you, and live as well as you please.
I grant it will be a very expensive education; and I certainly should
not recommend it if you were not abundantly able to pay the cost. I
talked with Uncle Moses about this idea, and he was pleased with it. He
even thought he should like to go with you; but he was not sure that
you would like to have him on board.”

“He ought to have been sure on that point, captain. I should be
delighted to have him with me,” added Louis warmly.

“I think you understand my idea now, my boy; and I must go on deck, for
perhaps you do not realize that we are engaged in a lively chase,” said
Captain Ringgold, as he rose from his arm-chair.

Louis followed him to the deck. The wind was very light from the west,
and the steamer pitched slightly on the long rollers of the ocean; but
Louis thought it was exceedingly pleasant sailing. If his mother had
been with him, he felt that he should be supremely happy. He walked
about the deck to examine the magnificent craft by himself while the
captain was attending to his duties, which consisted just then of an
examination of the log-slate in the pilot-house.

The Guardian-Mother was rigged as a topsail schooner. Captain Singfield
had built her for a voyage around the world, on which he intended
to be absent four years; and with an idea of saving expense, for he
was hardly as rich as the millionaire at sixteen, she was abundantly
supplied with canvas, so that she could make very fair progress under
sail alone, as proved on one of her trial trips.

He seated himself in the _boudoir_ after he had looked the vessel over,
and gave himself up to the reflections of the hour. He could hardly
believe that he was the sole owner of such an elegant and powerful
steamer, and he was delighted with the programme which the commander
had laid out for his education and recreation. But before all, the
steamer was to be used to reclaim his mother from the possession of
Scoble, and he could not think of anything else seriously until this
duty had been fully discharged.

Captain Ringgold came into the _boudoir_ just as the cabin steward rang
a bell in the companion-way. It was half an hour before dinner, at six
o’clock, and the owner thought he was hardly in condition to go to the
table, for he had put on his every-day clothes for the work in which
he had been engaged. His valise had been put in his stateroom, and he
considered it incumbent upon him to dress in a style becoming the
owner of such a steam-yacht.

“We are making sixteen and a half knots just now, Louis, which is half
a knot better than her former owner claimed for her,” said the captain,
as he seated himself opposite Louis.

“But when shall we catch up with the Maud? That is the one question of
interest to me now,” asked Louis.

“The Guardian-Mother will hardly overhaul her for forty-eight hours,
for she had a fair and fresh wind for about two days,” replied Captain
Ringgold. “Don’t be impatient, Louis, for I think that within three
days we shall have your mother on board.”

“Don’t forget to bring off Felix McGavonty with her, for he is to be
the companion of my voyages as well as my mother.”

“You may be sure that I will not forget him, my boy; besides, I am
inclined to think you will have a hand in the final work of the present
expedition.”

“I certainly shall if I am permitted to do so. But it is time for me to
dress for dinner, for I am hardly in condition to show myself at the
table,” added Louis, as he rose from his chair and went below.

His stateroom was the forward one on the starboard side, while the
one on the opposite side was reserved for Mrs. Belgrave. Before he
opened his valise, he had to look the room over. Its comforts and
conveniences, as well as its elegance, filled him with delight.
He could not banish his mother from his mind, and he thought how
amazed and enraptured she would be when she took possession of the
corresponding apartments on the port side. In the bath room he found
hot and cold water at the bowl. He had hardly entered it before the
electric lights flashed a flood of brilliancy into both rooms.

He dressed himself in his best clothes, and at the sound of the bell
went out into the main cabin, where dinner awaited him. The captain was
not there, neither was Mrs. Blossom, who was nominally a stewardess.

“Sparks, where is the captain?” asked Louis with all the _sang froid_
he could command.

“On deck, I think, sir,” replied the steward.

“Find him; present my compliments to him, and say that I desire the
pleasure of his company at dinner,” added Louis; and Sparks hastened to
obey the order.

He returned with the message that the commander would join him in a few
minutes. He then directed the steward to deliver the same invitation
to Mrs. Blossom. She appeared at once, and thanked the owner for his
consideration.

“I do not expect to take my meals at the cabin table with the owner,
for, as you know, I am only the stewardess,” said the lady very
pleasantly, as the captain came below.

“I wish to give my first order, Captain Ringgold,” Louis proceeded, as
the trio stood near the table. “From this moment Mrs. Blossom ceases to
be stewardess, and is to be regarded as the companion, not the servant,
of my mother. I expect and desire that you and she will take your meals
at my table.”

“I had no authority to engage a companion for your mother; and I
heartily approve your order, Mr. Belgrave,” replied the captain.

“Now, Captain Ringgold, you will oblige me by taking the head of the
table,” continued Louis. “I will sit at your right, and Mrs. Blossom at
your left.”

The commander objected; the owner insisted, and the latter had his
own way after many pleasantries. The dinner was equal to a Delmonico
affair, and Monsieur Odervie was generously praised. A full hour was
passed at the table, but most of the time was consumed in conversation.

Louis spent his evening in the _boudoir_, brilliantly illuminated by
electric lights, with Mrs. Blossom. He was tired enough to retire
early. The dinner had banished the last remnants of his malady, caused
by what he called starvation, though this was an exaggeration. He
related to his pleasant companion the history of the cruise he had made
in the Maud, and the chase after the schooner in the Phantom.

The next two days passed as agreeably to the young millionaire as the
absence of his mother would permit. The weather had changed, and the
wind was blowing more than half a gale from the north-west. At daylight
the next morning Captain Ringgold roused the owner, and informed him
that the Maud was in sight.




CHAPTER XXXIV

A WRECK ON THE BERMUDA REEF


Louis Belgrave had become sufficiently accustomed to the motion of
the steamer, even in a rough sea, to feel quite at home on deck or
in the cabin. The Guardian-Mother had crossed the Gulf Stream while
a northerly wind was blowing, and even Captain Ringgold called it
“decidedly lumpy.” The young millionaire’s experience in the Maud, and
before that in the Blanche, had very nearly made a sailor of him, so
far as his ability to handle himself on shipboard was concerned, and he
had made some progress in the details of practical seamanship.

The information given him by the captain that the Maud was in sight was
like a bolt of electricity shot into the being of Louis. His mother
was actually near him again, and his bosom bounded with the violent
emotions which agitated him. The commander only made his announcement
at the door of the stateroom, and was gone in a moment. The young man
was filled with hope that he should soon be in his mother’s arms, and
he did not stop to consider the many difficulties that were still in
the way.

He dressed himself very hurriedly in his common suit, for he knew not
what his next mission in the object of his existence might prove to
be. As he had been since the abduction of his mother, he was ready
for anything that might come. There were sixteen picked seamen on the
forecastle, besides the officers, engineers, and quartermasters. Every
person on board comprehended the mission of the Guardian-Mother, for
nothing else had been talked about since the young owner came on board
of the steamer. All hands were interested in the story told of him and
his mother, and there was not a single one of them who was not anxious
to assist in the recovery of the lady.

Louis put on his overcoat, and made sure that his revolver was in
condition for immediate use, though he hoped there would be no occasion
for such a weapon. He hastened on deck as soon as he had made his
hurried preparations. The motion of the vessel was more violent than it
had been the night before when he left the deck. The air was heavy with
moisture, which felt like fog, though he could see none. The wind was
directly ahead, and the steamer was pitching smartly in the heavy sea.
The wind had gone around to the opposite quarter, and Louis thought it
was blowing more than half a gale, as the captain measured it the day
before.

“You are getting it rough this morning, Captain Ringgold,” said the
owner, as he entered the pilot-house.

“Good-morning, Mr. Belgrave; but I hope you don’t call this very
rough,” replied the commander, peering out at the ocean ahead of the
vessel.

“Rougher than I have seen it before on this trip,” added Louis. “But I
don’t see the Maud.”

“You must have a pair of good nautical eyes to see her under present
circumstances; but I have made her out, and I am certain that she is
not far ahead of us,” said the commander, levelling his spy-glass at
the open window. “I can’t make her out now, for the air is full of
streaks of fog, which may settle down upon us, and bury us out of
sight.”

“That would be unfortunate,” suggested the owner.

“Perhaps not; it may be a good thing for us. But I am confident that
Scoble is heading too far to the westward,” said Captain Ringgold
anxiously, though he did not communicate his fears to his owner.

Half a dozen times in the next two hours the fog-banks settled and
rose again, but the Maud could be distinctly seen when she was not
wreathed in a mantle of vapor. The relative position of the two vessels
was now changed, for the commander had headed the steamer farther to
the eastward, and the leadsman was sounding all the time, though his
response was still “no bottom.” The occasional lift of the fog had
revealed the breakers on the reef, twenty-four miles in extent, and
about eight north-west of the Bermuda Islands.

“I suppose you know where you are, Captain Ringgold,” said Louis,
laughing.

“I do, very well indeed; and I wish that fellow in charge of the Maud
knew where he was,” replied the commander, looking more anxious than
ever, for the fog had just settled down again on the chase. “We must
have passed him by this time, for if he kept his course, he must be two
miles to leeward of us.”

“By the mark, fifteen!” shouted the leadsman in a vigorous tone, as
though he had important news to tell.

“All right; that settles it, and I know where I am to a hair,” added
the commander, as he directed the quartermaster at the wheel to head
the steamer to the westward.

From this moment two leads were going all the time, and the reports
came rapidly. The water was shoaling all the time, and the engine was
reduced to half speed. While it looked as though the fog was lifting
again, those in the pilot-house were startled by the boom of a small
cannon directly ahead.

“What does that mean, captain?” inquired Louis very anxiously, as he
tried to penetrate the fog-bank ahead with his vision.

“It means trouble for some one,” replied the commander, looking quite
as anxious as his owner. “Some vessel has evidently gone on the reef.”

“But what vessel?” demanded Louis, almost overcome with an agony of
suspense.

“Of course I don’t know; but I am very much afraid it is the Maud,”
added Captain Ringgold, his brow wrinkled and his lips compressed.

“Then my poor mother will be lost!” exclaimed Louis, unable to avoid
giving way to his emotions.

“That does not follow at all, Mr. Belgrave. If it is the Maud that is
in trouble, she cannot be more than a mile from us, and we have a good
chance to save all on board of her. But it may be some other vessel,
for a great many wrecks occur on these reefs Don’t give up to it, my
lad.”

Louis braced himself up to the duty of commanding himself as well as
he could; but it was the most difficult task he was ever called upon
to perform. Captain Ringgold was very active, and the reports of the
leadsmen assisted him a little, as they assured the commander that the
steamer was rapidly approaching the perilous reef.

“On deck!” shouted Mr. Gaskette, the second officer, who had been sent
aloft on the foremast to report any appearance ahead. “Wreck in sight,
sir!”

“What is it?” hailed the captain, who had gone out upon the deck.

“A schooner, hard and fast on the reef, with her foremast gone by the
board!” shouted the second officer.

“How does she bear?”

“Dead ahead! She is a topsail schooner, with her foremast alongside.”

“Steady, Spokes. Twist, go out on the forecastle, and fire two guns,”
said the captain.

“On deck, sir! The fog is lifting,” added Mr. Gaskette.

“And a half twelve!” cried one of the leadsmen, and the other presently
repeated it.

The commander rang one of the engine bells, and spoke through the
trumpet to the engineer, directing him to reduce the speed still
further. Briggs, the boatswain, was ordered to have two of the
life-boats in readiness to lower into the water.

“The fog is lifting again!” shouted Louis, who stood at the open window
in the pilot-house. “I can see the vessel, though she don’t look much
like the Maud;” and for the moment he dared to hope that it was not
she.

“I can see her distinctly now, and I have no doubt she is the Maud,”
replied the captain, who was giving his whole attention to the
sounding. “You can see her foremast with the yards on it, hanging over
the side. She must have ground out the step of her foremast when she
went on the rocks. It is all up with her, for she can never get out of
that scrape.”

“But my poor mother,” groaned Louis.

“Don’t be alarmed yet, Mr. Belgrave. You can see her people on the
deck, and they are all safe so far, I have no doubt whatever. The
steamer is not more than half a mile from her, and we can take off her
crew and passengers without any difficulty,” replied the commander in
assuring tones, which greatly strengthened the owner.

The weather was clearer than at any time before during the morning, and
Louis directed the glass in the pilot-house to the wreck. He had no
trouble in making out every person on the wreck. His mother, supported
by Felix McGavonty, was holding on at the lee side. The hull had
evidently twisted around so that she was broadside to the fresh gale,
for she could not have gone on the reef in the direction she was now
headed. The sea was making a clean breach over her, and she seemed to
be smothered in the torrents of white spray that swept across her.

“By the mark, ten!” shouted the leadsmen one after the other.

At this report the captain rang the great gong bell in the engine-room,
and the engineer promptly stopped the screw. The wind seemed to be
increasing in force, and the sea was very heavy. As soon as the steamer
lost her headway, she began to roll violently. The captain started the
engine again, brought the ship about, heading her into the wind, and
gave her headway enough to keep her up to the sea. Her position became
much easier at once.

“Mr. Boulong, you will take charge of the first cutter, and Mr.
Gaskette of the second,” continued the captain. “It is low tide, but
you must feel your way over the reef. You will find water enough for
the boats, and get on the lee side of the wreck. How to get the people
into the boats I must leave to your own good judgment, and I will not
embarrass you with orders which may not be practicable.”

“In which boat shall I go, Captain Ringgold?” asked the owner
earnestly, as the boatswain swung out the davits of the first cutter.

“I can’t advise you to go in either, Mr. Belgrave,” replied the
commander seriously.

“I must go, sir!” protested Louis. “Shall I keep away from my mother
when she is in peril of her life? I could not do it, captain!”

“I shall send two officers and eight men in the boats, and that will
be abundantly sufficient to save every one on the wreck,” argued the
captain. “You are not a sailor, and this is a dangerous enterprise, as
you can see for yourself.”

“Is it any more dangerous for me than it is for my mother?”

“But it is needless for you to expose yourself, and you can do no good
by going in the boat.”

“Where my mother is I must be, Captain Ringgold, and I shall go to
her if I have to swim to the wreck,” Louis insisted with all the
earnestness of his nature.

“This is your steamer, and these are your boats; and if you are
determined to go, I shall say nothing more,” added the commander, when
he saw that it was useless to argue the point.

“If it were not my mother in question I would obey you like a child.”

“I do not command you, Mr. Belgrave,” said the captain with a smile.
“Mr. Boulong, Mr. Belgrave will go in the first cutter with you, and
I need hardly tell you to look out for his safety as well as his
mother’s.”

It was not boys’ play to lower the boats into the water, and the
second cutter was nearly stove against the side of the ship. Under
the immediate direction of the captain the first cutter, with Louis,
the first officer and four men, was safely lowered into the water,
and shoved off, clear of the side. The boat was like a feather on the
bounding billows, and the owner found it necessary to hold on with both
hands in the stern sheets, where Mr. Boulong steered the cutter.

The second cutter had more difficulty in getting off, but succeeded in
the end, when Mr. Boulong was half-way to the wreck. The boat went over
the shoal water, and the bowman caught the rope that was thrown from
the Maud. Louis saw that his mother was on her knees in prayer.




CHAPTER XXXV

THE RETURN TO THE GUARDIAN-MOTHER


John Scoble could have not the slightest suspicion that the magnificent
steamer in the offing, which had come to the relief of his ship’s
company and passengers, was the property of Mrs. Belgrave’s son, or
even that Louis was within a thousand miles of him. Doubtless the
captain of the Maud believed that he had accomplished all that he
had attempted, and that not even the accident of his shipwreck could
deprive him of the fruits of his victory over Louis and his friends.

He had obtained full possession of the lady he still insisted upon
calling his wife; and it could not have occurred to him that the son
was able, or would ever be able, to wrest her from his grasp, either
by force or by strategy. The beautiful steamer, less than half a mile
distant, whose boats had come to his assistance, was bound to Bermuda,
or at least would land his party at St. George or Hamilton. He was
perfectly confident that he was the master of the situation.

As he had learned from the various exciting interviews with Scoble,
Louis was aware that the persecutor of his mother did not know that
the missing million had been discovered, and certainly not that the
purchase-money of the elegant steamer off the reef had been paid from
this resource. The young millionaire had not deemed it advisable to
give him this information, for Scoble would not believe him if he did
so. The treasure was still his coveted object.

The blinding spray that broke entirely over the wreck did not permit
any one on the deck to examine the faces of those in the first cutter
when the rope thrown by the mate was made fast in the fore-sheets. The
hull of the schooner had careened over to leeward till the mainmast,
the only remaining spar, extended out over the water at an angle of
about forty-five degrees; and the cutter had brought up directly under
it, as Mr. Boulong intended, in order to carry out a plan he had formed
as soon as he understood the position of the wreck.

Under the lee of the Maud’s hull the water was not so violently
agitated as in every other situation. Still, it was impossible to go
alongside the wreck without the peril of dashing the boat to pieces.
The wreck itself, the bottom of which was by this time ground out
of her on the sharp rocks, had a dangerous motion; and it was only
a question of minutes when it would be torn in pieces. There was
certainly no time to lose; and the mate, with his plan all ready,
proceeded to execute it without a moment’s delay.

“Bangs and Williams, I have some sharp work for you,” said Mr. Boulong
with energy. “Are you ready to run some risk? If not, say so.”

“All ready, sir!” shouted both of the bow oarsmen together. “Not a man
in this ship’s company will go back on his duty!” added Bangs.

“Not one, sir!” roared Williams.

The mate took a purchase from the bottom of the boat rigged with a
strong line, and passed it to the men in the bow.

“Now, Bangs, board the wreck with this line,” continued Mr. Boulong in
a very loud tone, which the noisy sea and the grinding hull rendered
necessary. “You will follow him, Williams. Make fast the purchase about
twenty feet up the main rigging! Rig a sling for the lady, and lower
her into the boat!”

“Ay, ay, sir!” responded the two men.

With the rope fastened around his body, Bangs began the ascent of the
fast which held the boat. The mate ordered the two men who were to
remain in the boat to back water with their oars with all their might,
in order to keep the rope as stiff as possible. But it was a perilous
enterprise; and more than once Bangs was swept under water by the
slackening of the line. If he had not been a bold, brave fellow, he
would have given up the attempt in despair. He struggled with the waves
that ingulfed him frequently; and, after a desperate battle with the
elements, he reached the wreck, where he was assisted over the bulwark
by the two seamen of the schooner.

Louis had taken one of the spare oars, and was pulling with all his
strength to keep the cutter at its distance from the wreck. The mate
took the remaining oar and joined in the work, while Williams, with
the block of the purchase tied to his belt, began to climb the fast.
Either because there was a momentary lull in the gale, or because the
additional oars kept the cutter steadier, the bold seaman made his way
to the deck of the Maud with comparatively little difficulty.

The purchase was hauled on board from the boat; and Bangs, without the
loss of an instant, ran up the main rigging with the block in his hand.
Williams followed him as soon as he could catch his breath,--for he had
been under water several times in his passage up the line,--with the
purchase-rope tied around him. The mast swayed badly under the pressure
of the heavy seas; but the work was speedily accomplished. The mate had
rigged the slings in the cutter, and they had been hauled to the deck.

Suddenly there was a violent commotion in the forward part of the
wreck, and the grinding and snapping of planks and timbers could be
heard. The stump of the bowsprit, which had been broken off when
the foremast went, by the board, dropped into the boiling sea. The
forecastle was lifted up as though a charge of dynamite had wrenched it
from its position; the whole forward part of the hull crumbled away,
and these portions of the wreck were tossed in every direction by the
savage waves.

“She is going to pieces!” cried Louis, as he witnessed the destruction
of this part of the wreck.

“Not yet!” shouted Mr. Boulong. “The forward part is broken off where
the step of the foremast was ground out of her. She may hold on some
time yet.”

“My mother is still on board of her,” groaned Louis, as he sprang to
the fore-sheets of the cutter.

He had thrown off his coat and hat when he began to row, and, without
announcing his intention, he threw himself upon the fast which held the
boat, and began to climb up as the two seamen had done. He had not
made six feet before he was submerged by the loosing of the rope. The
mate saw his peril, and the three men pulled with all their might till
the young millionaire rose from the water and renewed his effort.

“Come back, Mr. Belgrave! For Heaven’s sake come back!” yelled Mr.
Boulong in an agony of suspense; for he knew that the young man was not
a sailor, and he fully expected to see him drop exhausted into the sea.

The mate and his two men made their oars bend with their earnestness
to keep the cutter at her distance. Louis did not heed the call of
Mr. Boulong, but struggled on his way to the deck of the wreck. His
mother was in peril there, in deadly peril, as her son understood it,
after the whole bow of the vessel had been carried away. He would have
believed that he was a coward if he had retreated from the holiest duty
on earth.

There were moments when the tempest lulled a little, and one of these
brief intervals, as well as the tremendous efforts of the mate and his
men in the boat, favored him, and he succeeded in reaching the bulwarks
of the stranded craft, where Bangs hauled him in, very nearly exhausted
by his tremendous exertions. The purchase and slings were all ready for
use, and Bangs rushed to the waist, where Mrs. Belgrave and Felix were
awaiting their fate or their salvation, which ever it might be.

The strong arm of the seaman encircled her, and conducted her in safety
to the mainmast. By this time Louis had partially recovered his
breath, and he seized his mother in his arms as the seamen released her
to attend to the slings. She was blinded with spray, but she was calmer
than any of the crew of the Maud. Her prayers had strengthened her, and
prepared her for a grave beneath the wild waves.

“Mother!” exclaimed Louis, as he pressed her to his bosom with a sort
of wild rapture. “Not a word, mother! You shall be saved!”

Nothing more was said, for the business of saving her was paramount in
his mind. Bangs rigged the sling, and seated her in it, very much as
she had sat in a swing when she was a child. Then with some lanyards he
tied her to the ropes, so that she could not have fallen out if she had
taken no care for her safety.

“Here, you blackguard!” shouted Williams, as he seized one of the
seamen of the Maud who was in the act of getting on the rope to make
his way to the cutter. “If another mother’s son of you attempts to get
into that boat, I will fling him overboard! We save the ladies first!”

“Don’t be frightened, mother,” said Louis, as the two sailors began to
heave on the purchase-rope. “You will be put into the boat without any
danger.”

“I am not frightened, Louis; I am in the hands of the Lord, and I
shall be saved if it his will, my son,” she replied, as she kissed and
embraced him, perhaps thinking it might be the last time in this world.

As the men heaved on the line, Mrs. Belgrave rose in the air, and Louis
passed her over the bulwark. The block of the purchase had been rigged
directly over the cutter by Bangs, and as soon as the passenger had
been raised to the shrouds, the sailors lowered her, Louis attending
to the guy rope which had been attached to her. With the oars those in
the cutter kept it as steady as possible; Mr. Boulong received her in
his strong arms, and in a few moments more she was seated in the stern
sheets.

“It is your turn next, Flix,” said Louis, who had had no time to do
anything more than shake his crony by the hand.

Felix objected, and insisted that Louis should descend next; but the
owner directed Bangs to put him in the sling, and he submitted. In a
few moments more he was in the boat. The owner of the Guardian-Mother
had not so far encountered Scoble, or Frinks his mate; and there were
only two seamen on board, besides Kimpton.

“It is your turn now, Mr. Belgrave,” said Bangs, as he rigged the sling
for a third passenger.

“I am all ready,” replied Louis, who had no desire to remain any longer.

At this moment Scoble came on deck from the cabin with his hands full
of various articles which he was doubtless anxious to save, for he must
have had a considerable sum of money in his possession. He staggered
up to the foot of the mainmast where Bangs was rigging the sling for
the owner of the steamer, for it was not an easy thing to walk on that
uneasy deck, even for a sailor. But he looked as though he had been
drinking too much brandy.

“I will be the next one to go in the boat,” said he, his speech as
thick as though his tongue was double its natural size. “I don’t want
to be separated from my wife.”

“She is no longer your wife!” said Louis in a very earnest tone.

“Louis!” exclaimed Scoble, starting back as though he had seen an
apparition. “How came you here?”

But Bangs did not suspend his preparations, and in a moment more Louis
was ready for the descent. Very likely the sight of his late stepson
roused his anger, assisted by the spirit he had taken, and he insisted
that he should go next. When he began to lay violent hands on Louis,
Bangs waited for nothing more, but knocked him half-way across the deck
with a single blow of his fist. Before he could recover, the owner was
swinging in the air, and was presently deposited in the boat.

The second cutter had come up and made fast to the stern of the first.
Mr. Boulong had three passengers now, and he decided to take no more,
as there were only five more on the wreck. The other boat was hauled
up to the fast, and secured to it. Two of the oarsmen were transferred
from the second to the first cutter, and the second officer was
directed to take off those that remained. It was a very rough passage,
but the three persons were safely taken on board of the Guardian-Mother.




CHAPTER XXXVI

A HAPPY REUNION


By skilful management on the part of the commander of the
Guardian-Mother, the first cutter, containing the three passengers,
was hoisted up to the davits, and the lady was assisted to the deck,
where she was warmly welcomed by Captain Ringgold. The mate and the
oarsmen assisted Louis and Felix out of the boat, for it was impossible
for any of them to stand alone on the deck of the plunging vessel. The
young millionaire took the arm of his mother, and conducted her to the
_boudoir_, where the nickeled rail nearly surrounding the apartment
enabled her to preserve her equilibrium, though with no little
difficulty.

The first thing she did was to throw her spare arm around the neck of
her son, and draw him to her heart, while she wept tears of joy to find
herself once more in his presence. Louis returned the embrace very
earnestly, and he could not repress his own tears. For some minutes
they remained in each other’s arms, speaking not a word, for no words
were equal to the expression of their emotions.

“Sit down, my dear mother,” said Louis at last, as he supported her to
the broad sofa, where he seated her, and then bolstered her on one side
with the cushions.

“I thank the good Lord that we are together once more, Louis,” she
replied, taking the hand not in use in clinging to the rail. “But I am
utterly bewildered to find you here, as I was when you came to me on
the wreck. I gave myself up for lost before I saw the boats of this
steamer coming over the stormy sea.”

“But you are safe now, and I hope all your trials and persecutions are
over,” added her son warmly, as he pressed the hand he held.

“But where is that man--Scoble, I mean?” asked the poor woman, with a
timid glance at Louis.

“He and his crew will be brought on board of the steamer by the second
cutter.”

“This steamer?”

“Certainly; there is no other steamer near us. But you need not see
him if you do not wish to do so,” suggested Louis. “I hope he has not
ill-treated you, mother;” and the teeth of the young man were firmly
set together.

“No, my son; but his presence is intensely disagreeable to me. Felix
has saved me from a great deal of annoyance.”

“Flix, my dear fellow, I had almost forgotten you in finding my
mother!” exclaimed Louis, as he grasped the hand of his former crony.

“Faix, ye’s moight forget the loikes o’ me at the prisent moment,”
replied Felix. “But it’s mighty glad Oi am to see you, Louis, me
darlint.”

“I am just as glad to see you, old fellow; and I know you have taken
good care of my mother; and I should have known it if she had not said
so,” added Louis, as he touched the button of an electric bell, which
presently brought Sparks into his presence. “Ask Mrs. Blossom to come
to the _boudoir_, Sparks;” and the steward bowed and retired.

“Mrs. Blossom!” exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave. “Is she on board of this
steamer? And Captain Ringgold too?”

“Both of them, mother; and the latter is the commander of the steamer.”

Before any explanation could be made of the strange circumstances, as
they certainly were to the lady and her companion from the wreck, Mrs.
Blossom appeared in the _boudoir_, and gave her old friend and her
favorite in the house of Squire Scarburn a cordial greeting.

“Now, mother, Mrs. Blossom will conduct you to your stateroom. You will
find all your clothes and toilet articles there; and you must change
all your garments, for you must be wet through.”

“All my clothes here!” exclaimed the lady.

“They are, mother, for Captain Ringgold and I came down here on purpose
for you. But I must go on deck and see what is to be done with Scoble,
for he shall not annoy you here.”

“I was never more astonished in all my life than I am at this moment,”
said Mrs. Belgrave, as Mrs. Blossom assisted her down the stairs to the
state cabin, where her room was opposite that of her son.

“You need make no explanations, Mrs. Blossom,” added Louis. “Now, Flix,
you must have a wet jacket. Sparks, you will take this young gentleman
to the stateroom next to mine, which he is to occupy. Fit him out with
dry clothing from my valise, and take the best of care of him.”

“Thin it is a gintleman Oi am?” chuckled Felix.

“As you always were, Flix. But Sparks is not a professor of modern
languages, and I recommend you to speak English at him.”

“I shall certainly do so, Louis; and Mr. Sparks shall have no occasion
to find fault with me. But what is the meaning of all this masquerade?
I do not understand it any more than I do the black art,” replied Felix.

“You shall understand it all in due time, my dear fellow. In the mean
time, Sparks and Mrs. Blossom will answer no questions; but as soon as
the ship’s company of the Maud are disposed of, we will have a meeting
here, and talk it all over,” said Louis, as he went out on the deck,
while Felix followed Sparks below.

The passengers were bewildered and delighted with the elegance of the
cabin; but their exclamations were not reported. The owner found the
captain and most of the crew of the ship engaged in getting the second
cutter up to the davits. All who came in the boat were drenched with
the spray, more especially those from the wrecked schooner. But all
of them were sailors, and they made their way to the deck without
assistance. The climate of this region, even in mid-winter, is very
mild and soft, and no one could suffer on account of his drenched
clothing.

“Captain Ringgold!” exclaimed Scoble, as he confronted the commander
when he leaped from the cutter. “I am extremely happy to see you, sir.”

“Happier perhaps than I am to see you,” replied the captain bluffly. “I
have had the honor to be kidnapped by you, and that is not the way one
gentleman treats another.”

“But the force of circumstances compelled”--

“I don’t care a straw for the force of circumstances, for I know all
about them; and the force of circumstances only increased the force
of your rascality. As a shipwrecked mariner, it was my duty to save
you and your ship’s company, and I have done so; but the duty was made
pleasant by the fact that the fate of others whom I respect and revere
was involved with yours.”

“Then, captain, you would have permitted me to perish on the wreck
which has just gone to pieces, if my wife and that pettifogger’s cub
had not been with me?” demanded Scoble with a sneer.

“I did not say that, or mean it,” replied the captain with dignity.

“We need not quarrel, Captain Ringgold, for I am indebted to you
for saving me and my companions,” continued Scoble, smothering his
ill-feeling. “I need not say that I am astonished to find you here in
command of a fine steamer; but I suppose you are here in the interest
of that unlicked whelp of my wife.”

“I will not tolerate such language on board of my ship!” said the
captain sternly, as Louis stepped from the _boudoir_, where he had
remained to observe the scene.

“Oh, so you are here too!” ejaculated Scoble, when he saw his former
stepson for the first time.

“I am here, John Scoble, and I would have followed you all over the
world to redeem my mother from your poison fangs!” responded the young
man, indignant at the invective of Scoble.

“You will have a chance to do it yet, perhaps,” replied the late
captain of the Maud, now no more. “I wish to be reasonable, Captain
Ringgold, and I appeal to your sense of honor and justice. This boy,
this young scapegrace, has contrived to rob me of my wife, and has done
so by force and violence.”

“If you apply another offensive epithet to that young gentlemen,
Captain Scoble, I will lock you up in a stateroom!” interposed the
commander, with energy. “Mr. Belgrave must be treated with respect by
all on board of this steamer. If you cannot learn to do so, my men will
show you to your stateroom.”

“_Mister_ Belgrave seems to be in clover here. A young gentleman is
he?” sneered Scoble. “Is this a passenger steamer, one of the line to
the Bermudas?”

“No, sir! This is a private steam-yacht, and she is owned by Mr. Louis
Belgrave,” added the captain.

“Owned by him!” exclaimed the captain of the Maud.

“You do not seem to have learned the latest news in New York, and
especially in Von Blonk Park,” continued the commander with quiet
dignity. “You know something about a missing million; and, through the
mother of Mr. Belgrave, you intended and expected to obtain possession
of it, even at the sacrifice of the young gentleman’s life.”

“You wrong me, Captain Ringgold; I never had any such intention or
expectation,” protested Scoble.

“Your conduct can be explained in no other manner. You deceived the
lady you call your wife, for you represented yourself as an honest man,
of good family, and an honorable gentleman; and you are none of these.
The marriage was fraudulent, and in due time will be so declared by the
courts.”

“I claim to be an honest and honorable man,” added Scoble rather tamely.

“After stealing sixty or seventy thousand dollars from those who
trusted you?” demanded the captain indignantly.

“I had no intention to steal that money; my stepson robbed me of the
whole of it, or I should have restored it to the owners.”

“It was restored without your assistance. There are warrants out for
your arrest now. But I will not argue this question. I wish only to
tell you the news you have not heard, in the hope that it will save
Mrs. Belgrave from any further persecution on your part. The missing
million, or rather nearly double this amount, was found by Mr. Belgrave
himself, and it is all securely invested by his trustee at the present
moment; and this steam-yacht was purchased out of his fortune, mainly
to recover possession of his mother, and then to make a voyage around
the world for the young gentleman’s instruction and amusement.”

“Do you say that the missing million has been found, Captain Ringgold?”

“That is the fact; and it is well known in Von Blonk Park and in New
York.”

The expression on the face of Scoble fully revealed the effect upon
him of this intelligence. He gazed down upon the deck in silence for a
few moments; but he was not willing to receive this declaration, though
he could not doubt its truth, as a death-blow to his hopes. His brow
began to wrinkle into frowns that betrayed his wrath, and he clinched
his fists, as though he had no intention to give up the battle.

“In regard to the missing million, as you call it, I have no interest
in it, and it does not concern me. You slander me when you say that I
have been struggling to obtain it, either by fair or foul means. Let
that rest where it is. My quarrel with--with Louis Belgrave is because
he has falsely and wickedly prejudiced his mother, my wife, against
me; has caused her to repudiate me. I have been gentle with her from
the moment she came on board of the Maud, trying by kindness to win
her back. Now hear me, both of you! Maud Belgrave, as she was when we
were united, is my wife! I will follow her and her son all over the
world, if need be, to reclaim her. I tell you I will have her! If Louis
Belgrave comes between her and me, I will strike him down like a dog,
as any man in my situation would be fully justified in doing! Louis,
beware! Your million shall not save you from the wrath of a wronged
husband! I have nothing more to say, except to be shown into the
presence of my wife.”

“You cannot go into her presence on board of this steamer!” interposed
Louis.

“Bangs, conduct this man and the mate of the schooner to the after
cabin,” added Captain Ringgold. “If he or the other makes any trouble,
lock them into the two staterooms. Williams will go with you, and
both of you will remain on watch in the cabin. If either of them is
turbulent, report it to me.”

The two seamen who had proved themselves to be brave fellows in the
first cutter obeyed the order, and neither Scoble nor Frinks deemed it
prudent to resist it, especially as the captain of the schooner had
already been knocked down by Bangs. The two seamen and Kimpton were
taken to the forecastle and treated with the utmost kindness by the
officers and sailors.

“That is a very obstinate and wicked man, Mr. Belgrave,” said the
captain.

“I have no doubt he will make it hot for me if he gets a chance. But
I must go down into the cabin to see my mother. I wish you could come
with me, captain,” said Louis, when Scoble had disappeared at the
gangway of the after cabin.

“It is not prudent to attempt to get into the port of St. George with
the weather as it is now, and we may not get in before to-morrow. I
have given the order to stand to the eastward and southward,” answered
the captain. “This is not a very heavy gale; and, though it is lumpy,
we are all right, and I will join you in the cabin in a few minutes.”




CHAPTER XXXVII

JOHN SCOBLE’S ANTECEDENTS


When Louis went into the cabin, he found his mother, Mrs. Blossom, and
Felix seated on a divan which surrounded the mainmast. Mrs. Belgrave
extended her hand and drew her son to a place by her side, embracing
him again as she had when she first saw him. Her first question was
in regard to Scoble, and she was informed that he was on board of the
steamer.

“Sparks,” called the owner; and when the steward appeared, he inquired
if the door leading from the main to the after cabin had a lock and key.

“There is a lock, but there is no key in the door, sir,” replied the
steward.

“But I have the key to the lock, Mr. Belgrave,” interposed the chief
steward, who happened to be within hearing.

“Will you please to lock that door, and keep it locked all the time,
Mr. Sage?” added Louis.

“What is that for, my son?” asked Mrs. Belgrave, scenting some danger
she could not discern.

“John Scoble and Frinks are in the after cabin, into which that door
opens; but they are confined to their staterooms, with two seamen on
guard over them. You are in no danger whatever, my dear mother,”
replied Louis, pressing the hand, he held to reassure her.

“I am not afraid, Louis; I am not as timid as I used to be. But
everything here astonishes me, my son. You order these people about as
though you were perfectly at home here,” continued Mrs. Belgrave.

“I am perfectly at home here, and I wish you to be as much at home
on board of this steamer as I am,” replied the owner with a cheerful
smile; and for the first time in a week the millionaire at sixteen
felt perfectly happy, for he had his mother with him on board of the
magnificent steam-yacht.

“He ought to be entirely at home, Mrs. Belgrave, for your son is the
sole owner of the steamer,” interposed Captain Ringgold, who came into
the cabin in season to hear the last remarks.

“Louis the owner of the steamer!” exclaimed Mrs. Belgrave. “How can
that be possible?”

“When the mate of the Maud played us that trick, and thus got rid of
us, he had won the fight for which he crossed the Atlantic, and had
you in his possession,” the captain explained. “I need not try to tell
you how terribly alarmed Louis was when he realized that Scoble had
sailed away with you on board of his vessel. Mr. Woolridge’s yacht, the
Blanche, happened to be at the port where we landed, and Captain Alcorn
kindly got under way to assist us in finding you. We cruised all night,
but accomplished nothing.”

“I was not aware that you or Louis had done anything to find me,” added
Mrs. Belgrave.

“You did not suppose that I could keep quiet while that man was
carrying you off, did you, mother?” asked her son.

“I did not suppose you could do anything.”

Louis related all the incidents of the trip on the Phantom, the burning
of this steamer, and the escape of Kimptom to the Maud, which had
made her way out of the inlet while he was unable to lift a finger
to prevent her departure. Captain Ringgold gave the history of the
steam-yacht, and explained the theory which induced him to urge upon
Uncle Moses the purchase of the vessel.

“But the one thing in my mind was to chase the Maud all over the world
if necessary, to get you away from Scoble,” said Louis.

“I suppose you have noticed the name of this steamer, Mrs. Belgrave?”
added the commander.

“I have neither seen nor heard it,” she replied.

“The Guardian-Mother; and I need hardly add that she is named after
you, madam.”

“I could not call her the Maud after that schooner had had the name;”
and Louis explained in what manner he had fallen upon the rather
singular name. “You have always been my guardian-mother, and I have
always looked up to you as such.”

The motion of the steamer was too violent to permit the lady to look
over the vessel. The captain had to go on deck, and for another
hour Louis talked about the name, and what it meant to him. Then he
rehearsed the theory of the commander that the steamer was to be used
in promoting his education.

“I suppose Scoble’s plans are broken up by the loss of his vessel; but
he has doubtless saved all the money he had on board of the schooner.”

“He told me that he had a brother in the Bermudas who was very rich,
but who had recently been in ill health,” said Mrs. Belgrave. “Now you
have told him that the missing million has been recovered, he will no
longer have any reason for pursuing me.”

“I am not so sure of that, guardian-mother. The money has come into my
possession in accordance with my father’s will; but suppose I should
have the measles, be swallowed by a big shark, or be accidentally
drowned by falling overboard, to whom would my fortune, including the
Guardian-Mother, fall to, as provided by the will?”

“You suggest something horrible, Louis,” said his mother with a shudder.

“Scoble has two men in his employ at this moment, Brinks and Kimpton,
who would not scruple to commit any crime; and for three years I have
believed that Scoble was about as bad as a man could be. Frinks is a
rascal, and Kimpton burned the Phantom to enable the Maud to get out of
that inlet.”

“You frighten me, Louis.”

“But we must look these things square in the face.”

“Where are these men now, my son?”

“Scoble and Frinks are in the after cabin under guard, and the other
men went forward. I suppose Kimpton is one of them, though I have not
looked them over.”

At Louis’s request Mrs. Belgrave and Felix McGavonty related the
incidents of the voyage of the Maud, till the time she was wrecked. As
she had stated before, Scoble had treated her with great kindness and
consideration as a rule, for his object was to win her back to him. In
the morning she had permitted him to take the money from her room to
pay Frinks.

The “fiddles” had to be put on the tables for lunch, and when it was
ready the captain was called. It was hard work for the party to keep
in their seats, and harder still to prevent the dishes from dancing
hornpipes. The captain predicted a change of wind before night which
would bring better weather. But the sea was rough all the rest of the
day, and everybody retired early.

The next morning, as the commander had predicted, the wind came from
the west, and it had knocked down the sea. When Louis went on deck he
found the Guardian-Mother approaching the cluster of islands that form
the Bermudas. A pilot was coming off, and he was soon in charge of the
steamer. When breakfast was ready the vessel was at anchor off St.
George, as Captain Ringgold had decided not to go to the anchorage at
Hamilton, for it was necessary to consider the situation very carefully
before a decision in regard to the future could be reached. Louis had
recovered his mother. The battle had been fought and won for her.

“You are safe, Mrs. Belgrave; but the chess-board, with all the men on
it, is still spread out before us; and in advance of making any move,
it is necessary to ascertain what complications beset us,” said the
commander as he rose from the table.

“What possible trouble can we have now?” asked Louis, more from
curiosity than from fear.

“We are now in a foreign port. If Scoble should claim his wife, and
resort to legal measures to obtain her, he could give us a great deal
of trouble,” replied the captain. “I am not a lawyer, and I don’t
know what he might do. Of course you all wish to see these beautiful
islands; but this is not the right season to visit them.”

“Then I am in favor of going back to New York, and coming again at a
more suitable time,” replied Louis. “We have had no chance to enjoy
this magnificent steam-yacht, and I should rather be sailing in her
than wandering about on shore, even in the beautiful regions we can see
from the deck.”

“We will leave that an open question for the present. I will go on deck
now, and attend to the landing of the shipwrecked party,” added the
commander as he ascended the grand staircase, followed by the owner.

The second cutter had already been lowered into the water, and the
gangway had been rigged on the quarter. Scoble, Frinks, and the three
men forward were sent for. The captain and mate of the Maud were
escorted to the deck by Bangs and Williams.

“I intend to land you and your men at the nearest shore, Captain
Scoble,” said the commander.

“Do you intend to land my wife with me, Captain Ringgold?” demanded the
late captain of the Maud.

“I do not.”

“Then I shall soon be on English soil, and I will ascertain whether or
not a man’s wife can be taken from him by force,” growled Scoble.

“That is simply absurd; no force whatever has been used. If Mrs.
Belgrave wishes to land here with you, no one will prevent her from
doing so; but she absolutely refuses even to see you, much more to go
with you. You propose to resort to legal measures?”

“Certainly I do. I have been hunted and hounded by that boy, who has
prejudiced his mother against me, and I shall pursue him to the ends of
the earth!” stormed Scoble, with fury in his looks as well as in his
tones.

Defeated and overwhelmed in his purpose, the late captain of the Maud
went over the side, carrying with him the heavy package he had brought
from the wreck, which probably contained all his money and other
valuables. He was followed by all his men. Kimpton was still lame in
his wounded arm, and he had kept out of sight as much as possible since
he came on board of the Guardian-Mother. He acted as though he feared
that vengeance might be in store for him for his treachery at “Dolphin
Bay;” but Louis did not even speak to him.

The second cutter had gone but a short distance before it was hailed
by a boat from the shore, with a man in uniform in the stern sheets.
He was a Custom-House official, and having satisfied himself that the
cutter contained no merchandise, he permitted it to proceed to the
shore. The official then came on board of the steamer, where he was
received by Captain Ringgold, who explained that no goods or passengers
would be landed from the present anchorage, as the ship had come in
principally to land the wrecked party he had seen in the cutter. The
official declared that he was obliged to remain on board as long as the
steamer was at the islands.

“I shall be very happy to have your company, Mr.----”

“Stockling is my name, captain,” prompted the official.

“Captain Ringgold is mine. I hope you will make yourself at home on
board,” added the commander, as he offered his cigar-case to the
officer.

The captain directed Sparks to bring a couple of arm-chairs on deck,
and had them placed where all that happened on board could be observed.
Then he went to the galley, where he found Bickling at his usual duties.

“Cook, I think you told me that Captain Scoble had a brother in the
Bermudas.”

“Which it is true I did; and his brother’s name which it is ’Enery
Scoble, and he kept an ’otel in St. George’s.”

“Henry Scoble, is it?”

“Which it is, sir.”

The commander returned to the shady side of the quarter-deck where he
had seated Stockling, and took the other arm-chair placed there. He
was very polite to his official guest, who praised the cigar he was
smoking. The captain told him about the shipwreck of the Maud, and
talked about St. George’s, the port where the officer resided.

“Do you know a gentleman in St. George’s by the name of Henry Scoble?”
asked Captain Ringgold.

“I did know him, sir, for my chum, George Hastings, and I had lodgings
at his hotel for a few months; but he is no longer in the land of the
living,” replied Stockling.

“Then he is dead?”

“Died only about a month ago. He kept a hotel in St. George’s, but that
was not his chief business,” answered the official.

“What was his chief business?”

“It would be hard to tell in full; but he was a dealer in spirits and
wines, and was a smuggler and a speculator, as well as a wrecker.”

“Then he made money?” suggested the captain.

“Loads of money; and his estate is valued at over a hundred thousand
pounds, which he gave by his will to his only brother, taking out five
thousand pounds for his only sister. But his brother is a bad man,
worse even than Henry; and everybody here is sorry that the money goes
to him.”

“Why do you say that he is a bad man?”

“In the first place because he abused his wife, and then abandoned her
to take care of herself.”

“Indeed!” exclaimed the captain, but very quietly.

“Then he enlisted in the army and deserted. He was in the States; but
suddenly his letters stopped coming two years ago, and for a year and
more Henry has been trying to find out what had become of him.”

“You say that John Scoble abandoned his wife in England. Are you sure
of your facts in this matter, Mr. Stockling?”

“Am I sure of them? Isn’t my chum, George Hastings, the own cousin of
Mrs. John Scoble? He told me all about it; and we went to Henry’s hotel
in order to induce him to do something for the deserted wife.”

“Is John Scoble’s wife still living?”

“She was living six months ago at Nassau, where she went out as the
nurse of a family; but about four months ago George had an answer to
a letter of inquiry about her, informing him that she had left the
island, and no one knew where she had gone.”

“What was the lady’s maiden name?” asked the captain indifferently.

“Ruth Hastings. Scoble thought she was rich; but when he found that she
had only five hundred pounds he abused her, and then abandoned her.”

“That’s the whole story, is it?”

“That’s the whole of it. Henry Scoble was a widower. He would not help
the wife, or do anything to bring his brother to a sense of duty,” said
the official in conclusion.

Mr. Stockling lunched in the cabin with the party, and was treated as
well as the governor of the island would have been. Captain Ringgold
decided not to say a word about the important information he had
obtained to Louis or his mother. If the facts were as stated, the
marriage of Mrs. Belgrave was doubly invalid from the beginning. But it
was necessary to prove the facts, and the commander felt that he needed
the services of Squire Scarburn. Mrs. Belgrave was alarmed at the idea
of legal proceedings in a foreign land, and she insisted upon sailing
for New York at once, in which she was warmly seconded by her son.

The pilot had been retained on board; a boat came off for Stockling at
a signal, and in the middle of the afternoon the Guardian-Mother went
to sea. The principal object of the voyage had been fully accomplished,
and perhaps something more, though the commander did not feel full
confidence in the statements made to him. The steamer made a quick and
smooth passage, and Louis and his mother were supremely happy, quite as
much so as though they had been in the new house. Louis was hugged by
Uncle Moses when he went into the office, and Mrs. Belgrave and Mrs.
Blossom were warmly welcomed.

As soon as an opportunity presented, Captain Ringgold privately stated
the important information he had obtained in Bermuda to Uncle Moses.
The squire was astounded at the revelation, for it seemed to solve the
problem that vexed him and the mother of his ward. Was the information
reliable?

“The first thing to be done is to make a thorough investigation of the
statements,” said he, looking very serious for him.

“Where?” asked the captain.

“In Bermuda first, then in Nassau, and wherever the facts we learn
may take us, if it should be around the world,” said the squire with
enthusiasm.

“Louis insists that you go with us, Squire Scarburn, on our next
cruise,” added Captain Ringgold, who proceeded to relate all that had
been said on this subject, both by the owner and his mother.

“Something has been said before about my going with you, and there
was nothing I should have liked better. Now I have a good excuse for
doing so. Since you went away, I have agreed to take a partner, an
old friend, who is an honest man and a sound lawyer. It will take me
a month at least to complete my arrangements; but I will go then,”
replied the squire, who appeared to be as delighted as a child at the
prospect of such a voyage.

It was all arranged, and about the first of December the
Guardian-Mother sailed for Bermuda a second time, fitted out for a long
cruise, which might extend around the world. Louis Belgrave was still
“A Millionaire at Sixteen.” The cruise of the Guardian-Mother had been
successfully finished in the restoration of the mother of the young
millionaire; but those who are inclined to attend him still farther,
will renew their acquaintance with him in “A YOUNG KNIGHT-ERRANT; or,
Cruising in the West Indies.”




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Perceived typographical errors have been corrected.

  Inconsistencies in hyphenation have been standardized.

  Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.




*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A MILLIONAIRE AT SIXTEEN ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


