The Project Gutenberg eBook of Drug themes in science fiction
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Drug themes in science fiction

Author: Robert Silverberg

Author of introduction, etc.: Dan J. Lettieri

Illustrator: William Blake

Release date: October 26, 2025 [eBook #77131]

Language: English

Original publication: Rockville, MD: National Institute on Drug Abuse, 1974

Credits: Tim Lindell, Quentin Campbell, Thiers Halliwell (cover image restoration), North Dakota State University and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images made available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DRUG THEMES IN SCIENCE FICTION ***


                           Transcriber’s Note

Italic text is denoted by _underscores_ in this transcription.

                                   ————

See the end of this document for details of corrections and other
changes.

                         —————————————————————




                            Research Issues 9

                     DRUG THEMES IN SCIENCE FICTION

                             [Illustration]

                    NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE




    RESEARCH ISSUES SERIES

     1. Drugs and Employment

     2. Drugs and Sex

     3. Drugs and Attitude Change

     4. Drugs and Family/Peer Influence

     5. Drugs and Pregnancy

     6. Drugs and Death

     7. Drugs and Addict Lifestyles

     8. A Cocaine Bibliography—Nonannotated

     9. Drug Themes in Science Fiction

    10. Drug Themes in Fiction


                     ——————————————————————————————

                           Cover Illustration

      William Blake. The figure of Urizen or the Ancient of Days.
         Frontispiece from _Europe_. Illuminated printing.




DRUG THEMES IN SCIENCE FICTION

by

Robert Silverberg


November 1974


National Institute on Drug Abuse
11400 Rockville Pike
Rockville, Maryland 20852




   This volume, part of a Research Issues Series, was prepared for the
      National Institute on Drug Abuse by Documentation Associates,
                   Box 25892, Los Angeles, California,
                  under Contract Number HSM-42-73-222.


DHEW Publication No. (ADM) 75-190
Printed 1975




                                FOREWORD


    The issues of drug use and abuse have generated many volumes of
words, all written in an attempt to explain the “problem” and suggest
the “solution.” Data have been generated by researchers from many
disciplines, each looking at a particular aspect of an issue. The
present booklet is one of a new series intended to aid researchers who
find it difficult to find the time to scan, let alone read all the
information which exists and which continues to be published daily in
their area of interest. An attempt has been made to focus predominantly
on empirical research findings and major theoretical approaches.

    Included in volumes 1 through 7 of the series are summaries of the
major research findings of the last 15 years, formulated and detailed
to provide the reader with the purpose, methodology, findings and
conclusions of previous studies done in the topic area. Each topic was
chosen because it represented a challenging issue of current interest
to the research community. As additional issues are identified, the
relevant research will be published as part of this series.

    Several of the volumes in the series represent a departure from
the above description. These also represent challenging issues, and
issues of current interest; they are, however, virtually unexplored
areas which have received little attention from the research world. For
example, the subjects of drugs and the visual arts, science fiction,
and fiction—aspects of contemporary life which impact on all of us—are
explored here by writers who have been deeply involved in those fields.
Their content is perhaps provocative, and certainly stimulating.

    The Research Issues series is a group project of staff members
of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, Division of Research,
Behavioral and Social Sciences Branch. Special thanks are due to the
continued guidance and support of Dr. Louise Richards and Dr. Norman
Krasnegor. Selection of articles for inclusion was greatly aided by
the suggestions of a peer review group, researchers themselves, each
of whom reviewed a topic of particular interest. It is my pleasure to
acknowledge their contribution to the project here.

                                     Dan J. Lettieri, Ph. D.
                                     Project Officer
                                     National Institute on Drug Abuse


    Robert Silverberg is the author of many science-fiction
    novels, including _The Masks of Time_, _Son of Man_, _A Time
    of Changes_, _Dying Inside_, and others, as well as numerous
    short stories. He has won two Hugo Awards and three Nebulas
    for novel and short story. He is a past president of the
    Science Fiction Writers of America.

    Mr. Silverberg has also written several non-fiction books
    on historical and archaeological subjects, including _The
    Pueblo Revolt_, _Mound Builders of Ancient America_, _The
    Challenge of Climate_, and _The Realm of Prester John_. Born
    and educated in New York City, Mr. Silverberg now lives in
    Oakland, California.




                                 PREFACE


    The explosive upsurge in the use of mind-altering drugs by
middle-class Americans in the past decade has been a conspicuous and
much-discussed phenomenon of our times. Beginning in the mid-1960’s
and peaking, perhaps, about 1970, the use of marijuana, LSD, and even
heroin has taken on the character of an epidemic, not only among the
young but among many citizens of mature years. Though at present the
spread of heroin addiction appears to be once more confining itself
to low-income groups and LSD has become less fashionable among the
experimental-minded, certainly marijuana has established itself as an
almost universal drug used regularly by millions of Americans, and
use of more potent mind-alterers remains heavy if no longer greatly
accelerating.

    During the period of social dislocation—marked by radical changes
in styles of clothing and dress, assassinations of political leaders,
disruption of the governmental processes as a response to a war
commonly seen as immoral, rampant inflation, and other traumas and
upheavals—that corresponds to the spread of drug use in the United
States, science fiction has become one of the most popular specialized
subgenres of literature. Once the obscure amusement of a few thousand
cultists, science fiction is now read by millions; such novelists as
Kurt Vonnegut, Vladimir Nabokov, Michael Crichton, and others have
reached the best-seller lists with works of science fiction; motion
pictures such as _2001_ have won wide audiences and science fiction has
been conspicuous in the theater and in the themes of popular music.
While this increase in the popularity of science fiction is in part
a response to the wide publicity accorded the space explorations of
the United States and the Soviet Union, I think it is much more to
be ascribed to some of the same forces that have stimulated so much
interest in drug-taking. That is, in a period of social upheaval
such as we have experienced since the death of John F. Kennedy and
the escalation of the Vietnamese war, conventional modes of behavior
lose their appeal, and fascination with the bizarre, the alien, the
unfamiliar, the strange, with all sorts of stimulation that provide
escape from the realities of the moment, increases at a great rate.
Science fiction not only offers those values in abundance but also, in
its facet as satirical commentary on the here-and-now world, provides
a perspective on our rapid social changes that has great appeal to
readers, especially the young.

    Surveys have shown that the audience for science fiction is
primarily adolescent and above-average in intelligence; most of the
readers are between 15 and 25 years of age (though of course some
remain addicts of the genre throughout their lives). Therefore,
there is great correspondence between the main drug-using and
science-fiction-reading segments of the population, and it is
worthwhile to examine science fiction for insights into the use of
mind-altering drugs and for views of what drug use may lie in the
future.

    For the present research project I have compiled a group of
English-language short stories and novels which deal with the use
of mind-altering drugs, all written since 1900 and falling within
the literary category of science fiction. I have avoided inclusion
of that large body of stories dealing with drugs whose effects are
primarily on the body rather than the mind: immortality serums,
for example. Some of these stories date from the earliest years of
the science-fiction genre, notably from the 1920’s and 1930’s when
mass-market science-fiction magazines first began publication. Not
surprisingly, however, the majority of the stories within the study
date from the post-1965 period, when the use of drugs first pervaded
the national life to its present extent. For reasons explained in
the accompanying introductory essay, science fiction is more often a
reflection of existing societal trends than a prediction of trends to
come. The upsurge in drug use is precisely mirrored by the upsurge in
the use of such themes in science fiction.

    Science fiction is as much a guide to where we are as it is a
vision of where we are going. A literature so popular with the young,
commanding so intense and devoted a following, can be of significant
value in revealing the patterns contemporary society is taking and will
take in the years just ahead.




                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                       _Page_

        PREFACE                                             v

        OVERVIEW OF DRUG THEMES IN
        SCIENCE FICTION                                     1

        ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY                              9

            Primitive Period, c. 1900–1935                 11

            Predictive Period, c. 1935–1965                17

            Contemporary Period, c. 1965–1973              31

        AUTHOR/TITLE INDEX                                 53




               OVERVIEW OF DRUG THEMES IN SCIENCE FICTION


    Defining science fiction is no easy task. Some of the definitions
that have been proposed are so loose that they would qualify a book
like Sinclair Lewis’ _Arrowsmith_ as science fiction—it surely is
“fiction about science”—and others are drawn so narrowly that they
would exclude much of what is published today in science-fiction
magazines and books. With that caveat in mind, therefore, I offer one
of the more flexible definitions, one which I think does cover the
greater part of what I understand to be science fiction:

    Science fiction is that branch of fantasy which engages in
    imaginative speculation about the impact of technology on
    human society.

    By classing science fiction as a branch of fantasy, I make it
a subdivision of that vast literary genre that includes Homer’s
_Odyssey_, Milton’s _Paradise Lost_, the Norse sagas, _Alice in
Wonderland_, much of Poe, and so forth. Placing the emphasis on
technology, however, requires science fiction to have a certain
systematic content, an underlying rationale of theme. A story about
a vampire is pure fantasy; a story that rationalizes vampirism in
terms of metabolic phenomena is science fiction. It is the attempt at
inducing a willing suspension of disbelief by supplying a plausible
scaffolding for the implausible that gives science fiction its identity
within the greater realm of fantasy.

    But because science fiction _is_ a form of fantasy, it is ideally
suited for the exploration of drug-related phenomena. A drug is a kind
of magic wand; but it is a chemist’s magic wand, a laboratory product,
carrying with it the cachet of science. By offering his characters a
vial of green pills or a flask of mysterious blue fluid the author
is able to work wonders as easily as a sorcerer; and by rigorously
examining the _consequences_ of his act of magic, he performs the
exploration of speculative ideas which is the essence of science
fiction.

    So in the nineteenth century Robert Louis Stevenson produced _Dr.
Jekyll and Mr. Hyde_, Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley devised an elixir
of immortality in _The Mortal Immortal_, and H. G. Wells created a
whole shelf of drug-related stories, speeding up human motion in
“The New Accelerator,” turning beasts into men in _The Island of Dr.
Moreau_, depicting an unseeable phantom in _The Invisible Man_. And
in the present century the use of mind-altering or mind-controlling
drugs has become one of the prime vehicles for the speculations of
science-fictionists.

    In preparing this study of drug themes in science fiction, I have
employed the following categorical designations:

    _Drugs as Euphorics_: Drugs that give pleasure in simple
    unstructured ways, through release from depression and tension,
    much as alcohol does in our society (though alcohol is not strictly
    speaking a euphoric, of course).

    _Drugs as Mind Expanders_: Drugs that provide “psychedelic” visions
    of other times or places or that offer a sensation of oneness with
    the cosmos as a whole; analogous to LSD in our society.

    _Drugs as Panaceas_: Drugs which, through tranquilizing or
    neutralizing effects, calm the mind without necessarily inducing
    euphoria.

    _Drugs as Mind Controllers_: Drugs that enable one entity to limit
    or direct the activities or desires of another; analogous to
    brainwashing, and generally associated with totalitarian activities.

    _Drugs as Intelligence-Enhancers_: Drugs which have the specific
    property of extending or amplifying the rational processes of the
    mind.

    _Drugs as Sensation-Enhancers_: Drugs whose effects are achieved
    through amplified or extended bodily sensation-response, perhaps
    analogous to marijuana in our society.

    _Drugs as Reality-Testers_: Drugs which permit the user to
    penetrate the “real” realities beyond the surface manifestations of
    daily life.

    _Drugs as Mind-Injurers_: Drugs used as weapons in biochemical
    warfare, aimed at the mind.

    _Drugs as Means of Communication_: Drugs that have the specific
    property of opening hitherto unknown channels of communication
    between minds.

    Two distinct attitudes toward the use of mind-related drugs have
manifested themselves in science fiction. One is cautionary: that
any extraordinary indulgence in extraordinary drugs is likely to rot
the moral fiber of the user, leading to lassitude and general decay
of the individual or of society, and ultimately, perhaps, aiding the
establishment of a totalitarian order. The other is visionary and
utopian: that through the employment of drugs mankind can attain
spiritual or psychological powers not ordinarily available, and by so
doing can enter into a new and higher phase of existence.

    This latter attitude has become far more widespread since 1965,
when middle-class use of hallucinogenic and euphoric drugs in western
industrial civilization first began to take on the aspect of a major
cultural shift. The cultural assumptions of science fiction as a whole
can clearly be seen to follow, rather than to lead, public opinion:
most science fiction published in the twentieth century has been
mass-market commercial fiction which, however daring its departures
from everyday reality, has generally tended to adopt the conventional
moral dogmas of middle-class society, as does most commercial fiction.
Science fiction of the 1920’s and 1930’s reveals a remarkable degree
of racism no longer acceptable to general readers in what they read
(though they may cling to prejudices in daily life). Science fiction
of the 1940’s and 1950’s is marked by casual sexism likewise no longer
officially acceptable. And science fiction in general has shown a
strong, if implicit, bias in favor of capitalism, the work ethic,
Puritan sexual morality, and other pillars of western industrial
society. Drug-users in science-fiction stories until quite recently
were analogous to heavy users of alcohol in mainstream fiction: their
reliance on a consciousness-altering substance was seen as a sign
of weakness of character. In the past decade there has been a major
cultural shift in our society toward hedonistic behavior, at first
furtively, now openly; and this, after the customary lag, has been
translated into a shift in the direction of permissiveness in the
conventional moral attitudes expressed by popular entertainment. (The
private behavior of individuals is almost always far more scandalous
than the standards of behavior the public demands in entertainment or
from elected officials, but as taboos dissolve in private life they
weaken, to a lesser extent, in official public morality.)

    Science-fiction writers tend to be no more radical as a group than
any other randomly selected cross-section of middle-class educated
contemporary citizenry, so far as my extensive personal acquaintance
with them has shown; however forward-looking their fictional visions
may be, they are, in the main, far from atypical in daily life style.
Not only do they conform to prevailing cultural beliefs more than
outsiders are likely to suspect, but, as is true of most who depend
for their livelihoods on mass-audience acceptance, they quite readily
espouse a surprising conservatism of philosophy in their work. In the
past, therefore, professional science-fictionists almost automatically
chose a cautionary position for stories embodying drug-related themes,
the drugs being symbolic of decay rather than growth, and it is only in
the last few years that some writers have felt free to depict the use
of certain mind drugs in a positive—even evangelical—light.

    The extent of the shift may best be illustrated from the work of
a writer who, although he wrote science fiction, cannot be considered
a professional science-fictionist nor an advocate of conventional
morality, and whose career was conducted almost entirely outside the
taboo-ridden assumptions of mass-market publishing: Aldous Huxley.

    Huxley’s _Brave New World_ (1932) is a bitter satiric novel that,
as its sardonic title indicates, depicts a utopian world of the
future in which children are born in bottles at a State Hatchery and
Conditioning Center, designed by the benevolent world state to fit a
particular economic niche, and, as adults, kept in line by a generous
bread-and-circuses policy. Restlessness is cured by a wondrous drug
called _soma_: “... if ever by some unlucky chance such a crevice of
time should yawn in the solid substance of their distractions,” Huxley
tells us, “there is always _soma_, delicious _soma_, half a gramme for
a half-holiday, a gramme for a weekend, two grammes for a trip to the
gorgeous East, three for a dark eternity on the moon; returning whence
they find themselves on the other side of the crevice, safe on the
solid ground of daily labor and distraction....”[1] Those malcontents
and nonconformists who cannot accept the soft mechanical pleasures of
Huxley’s brave new world are exiled to remote islands.

—————————
[1] Huxley, Aldous. _Brave New World._ New York: Harper and Brothers
Publishers, 1946. p. 67.

    _Soma_, in _Brave New World_, is implicitly condemned as an
opiate, a mind-luller, an instrument of repression. Huxley’s negative
outlook toward the drug is not, though, an expression of work-oriented
Puritan morality so much as a classic liberal-humanitarian distrust of
technology: the Huxley of 1932 plainly believed that mankind coddled by
drugs was something less than what mankind could be. The young Huxley
felt contempt for those who needed mechanical aids or who depended
on anything other than the force of their own intellects. Many years
later, however, a very different Huxley experienced the psychedelic
marvels of mescaline and LSD, which kindled in him strong esthetic
delight and something akin to spiritual ecstasy. When he next attempted
the fictional construction of a utopian commonwealth, in _Island_
(1962), his outlook on mind-altering drugs was far more sympathetic.
In this ideal state of the future one uses not the soporific _soma_
but the ecstasy-invoking _moksha_, a mind-expanding hallucinogen.
Concerning _moksha_ one character says, “Having had the misfortune to
be brought up in Europe, Murugan calls it dope and feels about it all
the disapproval that, by conditioned reflex, the dirty word evokes. We,
on the contrary, give the stuff good names—the _moksha_-medicine, the
reality-revealer, the truth-and-beauty pill. And we know, by direct
experience, that the good names are deserved.”[2] Huxley is really
talking about LSD, and his tone is that of the acid-evangelist.

—————————
[2] Huxley, Aldous. _Island._ New York: Harper and Row, Publishers,
1962. p. 157.

    Drug as contemptible anodyne, drug as gateway to higher
reality—those are the poles bounding the handling of drugs in science
fiction. The older science fiction was preponderantly negative,
as, for example, James Gunn’s _The Joy Makers_, published in 1961
but written half a decade earlier, in which a repressive government
sustains itself through mandatory use of euphorics. The same theme can
be found in Hartley’s _Facial Justice_ (1960), and in other works. Even
when not used as an instrument of totalitarianism, drugs are often seen
as dangerous self-indulgence, as in Wellman’s _Dream-Dust from Mars_
(1938), Smith’s _Hellflower_ (1953), or Pohl’s _What to Do Until the
Analyst Comes_ (1956). The prototypes for the imaginary drugs described
in these stories are alcohol and heroin—drugs which blur the mind and
lower the consciousness.

    Much recent science fiction, however, taking cognizance of such
newly popular drugs as LSD, marijuana, and mescaline, show society
transformed, enhanced, and raised up by drug use. Silverberg’s _A Time
of Changes_ (1971) portrays a dour, self-hating culture into which
comes a drug that stimulates direct telepathic contact between human
minds and brings into being a subculture of love and openness. This
creates a great convulsion in the society, but the implication is that
the change the drug brings is beneficial. Similarly, in Panshin’s
_How Can We Sink When We Can Fly?_ (1971), a drug called _tempus_
that induces travel in time is part of the educational process of a
future society. In _The Peacock King_ by McCombs and White (1965) LSD
is used as a training device to prepare astronauts for the rigors of
interstellar travel, and in H. H. Hollis’ _Stoned Counsel_ (1972)
hallucinogenic drugs have become routine aspects of courtroom work.
Another view of a society transformed but not necessarily injured by
mass drug use is Wyman Guin’s _Beyond Bedlam_, dating from 1951, in
which schizophrenia is desired and encouraged and is induced by drugs.
In Silverberg’s _Downward to the Earth_ (1971) hallucinogens play a
part in ecstatic religion on another world.

    A variant of the mind-expanding drug is the intelligence-enhancing
drug, long a common theme in science fiction. Some recent exponents
of the theme are Brunner’s _The Stone That Never Came Down_ (1973),
Dickson’s _The R-Master_ (1973), and Disch’s _Camp Concentration_
(1968).

    Not all depiction of drugs in recent science fiction is
sympathetic, of course. Aldiss’ _Barefoot in the Head_ (1970) shows
all of Europe thrown into confusion by the “acid-head war,” in which
an Arab power doses the whole continent with psychedelic weapons.
(Aldiss does indicate at least peripherally that the new tripped-out
culture emerging in war-wrecked Europe is not entirely inferior to
its predecessor.) Chester Anderson’s lighthearted _The Butterfly Kid_
(1967) depicts hallucinogenic drugs as weapons employed by aliens,
whether mind-expanding, mind-contracting, or mind-controlling. In the
horrendously overpopulated future of Harry Harrison’s _Make Room! Make
Room!_ (1966), LSD and marijuana are the best available escapes from
the daily nightmare that is life; in a similarly crowded world imagined
by Doris Pitkin Buck in _Come Where My Love Lies Dreaming_ (1964) the
drug of choice is nothing we have today, but rather one that gives
the user the vicarious experience of existence as a dinosaur! However
different the details, though, the stories say the same thing: that
fortitude is not enough, that chemical assistance will be needed.

    The stories in the sample chosen for this project illustrate the
whole range of drug themes in science fiction, from the plausible to
the fantastic, from the horrifying to the ecstasy-inducing. In a world
where man and his technological marvels must coexist along an uneasy
interface, science fiction indicates some of the possible impact areas
in the decades and centuries ahead.




                         ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY

    The science-fiction works selected for this bibliography are
arranged chronologically within the categories described below.

    _Primitive Period_ circa 1900–1935. Science fiction was then, at
least in the specialist magazines, a crude and artless form, and the
stories tend to be skeletal and formula-ridden. Typically, a scientist
working in secret (often a mad scientist) devises a drug whose effects
operate on the mind in some extreme fashion, and through secret
experiments demonstrates the perils of this drug. Examples: Barnes,
Binder, Fearn, Gatter, Hall, etc.

    _Predictive Period_ circa 1935–1965. As the genre matured, authors
began to seek greater complexity of style and structure in their
fiction, and to achieve greater thematic perception. The stories
of this period characteristically attempted to consider the most
wide-ranging consequences of drug use; the authors themselves typically
had had no experience with drugs other than alcohol, and based their
ideas partly on imaginative projection and partly on the reports
of such early experimenters with drugs as Baudelaire and deQuincy.
Examples: Guin, Pohl, Collins, Huxley (1932), MacDonald, Hartley, Gunn.

    _Contemporary Period_ circa 1965 to date. With drug use now a
matter for the news media as well as for solitary experimenters and
literateurs, experience with mind-altering phenomena grows; many
authors now sample marijuana and LSD and use their experiences as a
basis for projections of trends. The changes in society are presumed
to be permanent and become fixtures in stories, so that characters in
a story set in 1999 use drugs like marijuana and LSD as casually as
characters in a futuristic story written in 1950 would use cigarettes
and alcohol. Drug use is taken for granted in the future, and new
uses are postulated as an outgrowth of a richness of drug experience
not available to earlier science-fiction writers, who had neither the
personal experience nor the wealth of published data that present-day
writers may draw upon. Examples: Aldiss, Spinrad, Silverberg, Dick,
Anderson, Disch, Moorcock, Brunner.




                         ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY

                            PRIMITIVE PERIOD

                               (1900–1935)


Author:      Pratt, Fletcher and Lester, Irvin

Title:       The Roger Bacon formula

Journal:     _Amazing Stories_, Vol. 3, No. 10, 940–948

Publisher:   Experimenter Publishing Company, New York

Date:        January 1929

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Medievalist rediscovers lost manuscript in which Roger
Bacon provides the formula for _mandragordeum_, a drug that induces
“transportation of the mind.” Taking it, the experimenter finds himself
freed from his body and journeying to Venus; a vivid vision of life on
the second planet ends only when the drug wears off. Fearing addiction,
he never tries the drug again, though he admits a temptation to more
tripping.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Harris, Clare Winger

Title:       The diabolical drug

Journal:     _Amazing Stories_, Vol. 4, No. 2, 156–161

Publisher:   Experimenter Publishing Company, New York

Date:        May 1929

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-controllers

Annotation:  Scientist develops a chemical which, by retarding the
voltage of the brain’s electrical activity, halts the aging process. An
experiment on a human is performed, the subject being the scientist’s
beloved, who is six years older than he is; he intends to hold her at
the same age until he has caught up. She sinks into a kind of stasis.
Unable to perfect an antidote, he injects himself also, and the two of
them enter a strange suspended animation in which extreme psychological
effects of the metabolic slowdown manifest themselves.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Huxley, Aldous

Title:       Brave New World

Publisher:   Chatto & Windus, London, England

Pages:       214 pp.

Date:        1932

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as panaceas

Annotation:  In mechanized, standardized utopian world of the future,
where human beings are synthetically produced in incubators and
conditioned for optimum social stability, a drug called _soma_ serves
as the utopiate of the masses, distracting and tranquilizing those who
might otherwise become restless in their too-comfortable lives.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Keller, David H.

Title:       The literary corkscrew

Journal:     _Wonder Stories_, Vol. 5, No. 8, 867–873

Publisher:   Continental Publications, New York

Date:        March 1934

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as intelligence enhancers

Annotation:  Satiric story. A professional writer discovers he can
write only when in physical pain, and requires his wife to drive
a corkscrew into his back to get him started. But the pain of the
corkscrew is impossible to sustain for long, and they seek medical
help. The doctor they consult discovers that it isn’t the pain itself
but rather certain hormones secreted as a response to the pain that
encourages literary production, and synthesizes a drug that makes
writing easier. Doctor takes his own drug and writes a best-seller.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Fearn, John Russell

Title:       He never slept

Journal:     _Astounding Stories_, Vol. 13, No. 4, 56–67

Publisher:   Street & Smith, New York

Date:        June 1934

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as intelligence-enhancers

Annotation:  Scientist concocts a protein-based drug that frees the
subject from all need to sleep. Narrator takes the drug and enters
into a condition of enhanced perceptivity in which he is capable of
penetrating the visionary recesses of his own mind and visiting the
dream-creating processes. The experience eventually exhausts him, but
unable to give up use of the drug, he looks forward to death as the
only release from its effects.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Herbert, Benson

Title:       The control drug

Journal:     _Wonder Stories_, Vol. 6, No. 6, 669–675

Publisher:   Continental Publications, New York

Date:        November 1934

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as euphorics

Annotation:  Scientist invents a xenon-derived drug that seems to
offer a “paradise” effect—brief glimpses of the Divine, freedom from
the material body, etc. But further research shows its dread long-term
effects: “The stuff doesn’t exalt you or energize you.... What it
does is to release the emotions from a lifetime of civilized control
and suppression. It takes the bonds off secret desires. Its subtle
physiological action leaves you with no control whatever.” Naturally he
destroys the drug and takes his own life.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Hamilton, Edmond

Title:       The truth gas

Journal:     _Wonder Stories_, Vol. 6, No. 5, 1060–1071

Publisher:   Continental Publications, New York

Date:        February 1935

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-controllers

Annotation:  A scientist who believes that all sin and crime stem
from deceptiveness perfects and releases into the atmosphere a drug
that “causes a short-circuit between the brain’s thought-centers and
its motor-centers of speech” so that lying becomes impossible. The
resulting compulsive honesty leads to impossible social situations as
the whole veneer of tact and diplomacy vanishes; it becomes necessary
to devise and release an antidote.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Bartel, Philip J.

Title:       The elixir of progress

Journal:     _Wonder Stories_, Vol. 6, No. 11, 1286–1304

Publisher:   Continental Publications, New York

Date:        April 1935

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as euphorics

Annotation:  Satiric story of the quest in the year 3903 for
rediscovery of the lost ancient drug that provided stimulation and
energy and delight to early man—coffee.




                         ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY

                            PREDICTIVE PERIOD

                               (1935–1965)


Author:      Smith, Clark Ashton

Title:       The Plutonian drug

Journal:     _Amazing Stories_, Vol. 9, No. 5, 41–48

Publisher:   Teck Publications, New York

Date:        September 1934

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Among the many drugs brought back to Earth by space
explorers is _Plutonium_, a powder from Pluto that produces a
hashish-like derangement of time-perception, permitting the user to
transform time into space and go on psychedelic voyages. The subject
penetrates five or six hours into the past, an ineffable experience
that ends with a vision of his own death soon fulfilled in reality.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Barnes, Arthur K.

Title:       Emotion solution

Journal:     _Wonder Stories_, Vol. 7, No. 8, 955–963

Publisher:   Continental Publications, New York

Date:        April 1936

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-controllers

Annotation:  A scientist who feels that emotions are a hindrance to the
full development of intelligence perfects a solution that destroys the
“emotional centers” of the brain; he infiltrates it into the Southern
California water system. The resulting emotionless society is lifeless
and without energy, not at all what the scientist envisioned, and he
feels guilt for having transformed millions of people into dull robots.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Gatter, George F.

Title:       Emotion gas

Journal:     _Wonder Stories_, Vol. 7, No. 8, 967–971

Publisher:   Continental Publications, New York

Date:        April 1936

Format:      Short story

Descriptors: Drugs as mind-controllers; Drugs as euphorics

Annotation:  Unscrupulous theatrical producers enhance the box-office
appeal of their comedy by surreptitiously dosing the audience with
a gas that induces euphoria; they leave convinced they have seen an
extraordinarily funny show, and business booms, until one night an
overdose is given that amplifies not only happy feelings but passing
moments of depression, causing everybody to leave in a black despondent
mood that kills the show.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Coblentz, Stanton A.

Title:       The glowworm flower

Journal:     _Astounding Stories_, Vol. 17, No. 4, 22–29

Publisher:   Street & Smith Publications, New York

Date:        June 1936

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as euphorics

Annotation:  A pioneering space exploration voyage brings back,
by accident, spores of an extraterrestrial plant that sprouts on
Earth. The flower of this plant gives off a fragrance that induces
intoxication, coma, and opium-like visions. Tripping on glowworm-flower
fragrance becomes addictive for many of Earth’s finest minds, though
lesser folk are relatively immune. The plant is eradicated everywhere,
possession of it is made illegal, and all space missions are banned
lest spaceships again be contaminated with the sinister spores.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Binder, Eando

Title:       The hormone menace

Journal:     _Thrilling Wonder Stories_, Vol. 8, No. 1, 34–47

Publisher:   Beacon Magazines, Inc., New York

Date:        August 1936

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-controllers

Annotation:  Villainous scientist, using extracts derived from
endocrine secretions, transforms human beings into mindless puppets
of abnormal strength and stature or of extraordinary mental abilities
(i.e., photographic memories). Heroic underground agent penetrates his
remote laboratory and puts an end to the research.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Wellman, Manly Wade

Title:       Dream-dust from Mars

Journal:     _Thrilling Wonder Stories_, Vol. 11, No. 1, 14–28

Publisher:   Better Publications, Inc., New York

Date:        February 1938

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as panaceas

Annotation:  The spores of a Martian lichen are an agreeable stimulant
to Martians of the 28th century but throw Earthmen into deep trances
in which they experience prolonged ecstatic dreams. The _dream-dust_
becomes immensely popular on Earth and is outlawed when everyone seems
headed for the oblivion it provides.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Hall, Charles F.

Title:       The time drug

Journal:     _Tales of Wonder_, Vol. 1, No. 5, 62–73

Publisher:   The World’s Work, Surrey, England

Date:        Winter 1938

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Scientist perfects a drug, mixing together cactus
alkaloids and kava root, which creates powerful psychedelic effects
and allows the experimenter to float backward in time. Backward
explorations continue until the researcher reaches the creation of the
universe, with grave consequences for him.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Kyle, David A.

Title:       Golden nemesis

Journal:     _Stirring Science Stories_, Vol. 1, No. 1, 28–34

Publisher:   Albing Publications, New York

Date:        February 1941

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Aware that most of the capacity of the human brain
remains unused, an experimenter devises a drug that will raise him to
superhuman intelligence by giving him access to his entire brain. He is
transformed into a genius by the drug, but only for a brief, intense
“trip,” which after a few days so exhausts him that, “nerves on fire,”
he dies of heart failure. The story is a remarkable anticipation of
extreme LSD effects.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Pohl, Frederik

Title:       What to do until the analyst comes

In:          _Alternating Currents_

Publisher:   Ballantine Books, New York

Pages:       143–154

Date:        1956

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as panaceas

Annotation:  Narrator is an advertising man who tells how, after
a cigarettes-and-lung-cancer scare, researchers discover a cheap,
allegedly harmless and non-addictive euphoric drug, and it goes on
the market in chewing-gum form as a replacement for cigarettes. Soon
everyone is chewing _Cheery-Gum_ except the narrator, who is allergic
to it; and though the drug is theoretically non-addictive, it makes
everyone so high that no one wants to give it up—leading to a dazed
and tranquilized society in which everyone is euphoric and indolent
and everyone maintains that he could kick the _Cheery-Gum_ habit on a
moment’s notice, if he had any reason to do so—which he doesn’t.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Slesar, Henry

Title:       I remember oblivion

Journal:     _Fantasy and Science Fiction_, Vol. 30, No. 3, 36–43

Publisher:   Mercury Press, New York

Date:        March 1966

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-controllers

Annotation:  A technique has been devised for literal brainwashing
of criminals, i.e., the total eradication through chemotherapy of
memory, and the reconstruction, using drugs and “narco-hypnosis,” of a
new non-criminal personality within the existing body. The narrative
cuts from the conversation of two scientists using the technique to
the stream-of-consciousness of a rehabilitated criminal who, breaking
through his conditioning, regains access to his memories and commits
suicide in his guilt.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Keller, David H.

Title:       The abyss

In:          _The Solitary Hunters and the Abyss_

Publisher:   New Era Publishers, Philadelphia

Pages:       108–265

Date:        1948

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-controllers

Annotation:  A scientist isolates _XYZ_, a chemical present in the
minds of psychotics, and, purely as an experiment, doses all of New
York City with it by distributing it in the form of chewing gum. Mass
psychosis results; civilization collapses and the eight million guinea
pigs revert to a sort of Roman culture, with barbaric gladiatorial
games, an emperor, mass brutality, new religions. After thirty days the
drug wears off and the victims fall into coma and awaken unharmed.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      MacDonald, John D.

Title:       Trojan horse laugh

Journal:     _Astounding Science Fiction_, Vol. 43, No. 6, 73–111

Publisher:   Street & Smith Publications, New York

Date:        August 1949

Format:      Short novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind controllers

Annotation:  An endocrinologist has charted a monthly human cycle
of emotional peaks and depressions, and, for the sake of greater
efficiency and harmony in society, has developed a drug that will
control and adjust the cycle so that everyone treated will peak or
drop at the same time. This works well during the high part of the
cycle, but once the lows set in, mass hysteria develops among the
inoculated populace, there is a wave of suicides, and a chain reaction
of interlocking depressions virtually destroys society.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Williams, Robert Moore

Title:       The elixir of peace

Journal:     _Amazing Stories_, Vol. 23, No. 12, 124–131

Publisher:   Ziff-Davis Publishing Company, Chicago

Date:        December 1949

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-controllers

Annotation:  Comic story of a tranquilizing drug devised to make
animals such as lions tame enough to use in movies. The demonstration
leads to complications, and a furious movie director is “tamed” as well
by surreptitious use of the drug.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Heinlein, Robert A.

Title:       _The Puppet Masters_

Publisher:   Doubleday & Co., New York

Pages:       219 pp.

Date:        1951

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  The Earth has been invaded by slug-like parasitic beings
that attach themselves to men’s backs and dominate their minds and
bodies. The protagonists, Sam Nivin and Mary, are members of a secret
security agency fighting the invaders. In the middle of the struggle
they decide to get married; but because they can only spare 24 hours
for their honeymoon, they inject themselves with _tempus_, a drug
analogous to speed, which stretches subjective time for them so that
they feel they are experiencing a month-long honeymoon.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Morrison, William (Pseud. for Joseph Samachson)

Title:       The addicts

Journal:     _Galaxy Science Fiction_, Vol. 3, No. 4, 122–131

Publisher:   Galaxy Publishing Corporation, New York

Date:        January 1952

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as euphorics

Annotation:  Husband and wife are lighthouse-keepers on a lonely
asteroid between Earth and Mars. Husband has become addicted to
_marak_, a euphoric drug that keeps him in a constant state of good
nature and well-being. This makes meaningful conversation between him
and wife impossible, since he is so agreeable that all discussions
trail off immediately, and she is growing irritable for lack of
stimulating company. Husband therefore decides secretly to give his
wife addictive dose of drug.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Smith, George O.

Title:       _Hellflower_

Publisher:   Abelard Press, New York

Pages:       264 pp.

Date:        1953

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as sensation-enhancers

Annotation:  On Ganymede, moon of Jupiter, grows the gardenia-like
plant from which _hellflower_, also known as _love lotus_, is
extracted—a narcotic which heightens sensations and other sensory
stimuli and creates psychological addiction through enhancement of
pleasure—with women the chief victims. Story concerns the traffic in
this and related drugs and the attempts of a government agent of the
future to intercept it.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Devaux, Pierre and Viot, H. G.

Title:       The stolen minute

Journal:     _Science Fiction Plus_, Vol. 1, Nos. 4 and 5, 44–61,
              42–62

Publisher:   Gernsback Publications, Inc., New York

Date:        June and August 1953

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  A French molecular physicist develops a drug known as
_hexostyromolybdenum_, HSM, which has the property of vastly increasing
the human metabolism. Motion, body speed, the rate of living, and other
functions are accelerated 100,000 times. Protagonists make use of HSM
to achieve desired political goals.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Phillips, Rog (Pseud. for Roger Philip Graham)

Title:       The yellow pill

Journal:     _Astounding Science Fiction_, Vol. 62, No. 2, 51–61

Publisher:   Street & Smith Publications, New York

Date:        October 1958

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as reality-testers

Annotation:  Psychiatrist encounters a patient who has committed
murder and who has the delusion that he was on board a spaceship,
defending himself against lizard-men from Venus, at the time of the
killing. Patient totally denies the reality of actual world, and tells
psychiatrist to take a _yellow pill_ that will awaken him to the true
reality of the spaceship-world. Psychiatrist is amused by concept
of a yellow pill that can bring one out of a delusion; but then he
finds a bottle of yellow pills in his locker and the story becomes an
exploration of ambiguous levels of reality, with the pills serving as
conduits between one “real” world and the other.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Hartley, L. P.

Title:       _Facial Justice_

Publisher:   Doubleday & Company, New York

Pages:       263 pp.

Date:        1960

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-controllers

Annotation:  The scene is the not very distant future, after the
Third World War. Nine tenths of the human race has been destroyed
and the survivors are ruled by a benevolent dictator who reduces
conflict situations by imposing an enforced equality: personalities
are standardized, numbers are used for names, women undergo plastic
surgery so that none will seem too beautiful or too ugly. This dreary
homogenized state is kept under control by dosing the citizens daily
with a sedative-like bromide to which most people have become addicted;
it lowers vitality and reduces nonconformity.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Gunn, James

Title:       _The Joy Makers_

Publisher:   Bantam Books, New York

Pages:       160 pp.

Date:        1961

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as euphorics

Annotation:  Under the 26th Amendment to the Constitution, ratified
in 2003, hedonism is the law of the land. The function of government,
it has been decided, is “the preservation and promotion of the
temporary happiness of its citizens.” Gloom is outlawed and happiness
is mandatory. It is attained through mental disciplines, through
mechanical regulation of the metabolism, and through the free use of
drugs—notably mescaline, “neo-heroin,” various alkaloids, and certain
futuristic euphorics.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Huxley, Aldous

Title:       _Island_

Publisher:   Harper & Row, New York

Pages:       295 pp.

Date:        1962

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  This Utopian novel, written thirty years after Huxley’s
anti-drug _Brave New World_ and after his own experiments with LSD and
mescaline, depicts another ideal commonwealth centering on the use
of drugs: but in place of _Brave New World’s_ mind-deadening _soma_,
the citizens of _Island_ use _moksha_, a hallucinogen very similar in
effect to LSD, which induces mystical visions and intensifies religious
experience.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Burgess, Anthony

Title:       _A Clockwork Orange_

Publisher:   W. W. Norton, New York

Pages:       160 pp.

Date:        1963

Format:      Novel

Descriptors: Drugs as mind-controllers; Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Alex is a juvenile delinquent of the near future, who
routinely uses such drugs as _synthemesc_ or _drencrom_ that are sold
in neighborhood “milk bars” for hallucinogenic boosts. After committing
a particularly atrocious assault, Alex is arrested and sentenced
to a kind of brainwash reconditioning. With the aid of drugs and
hypnotherapy he is conditioned against violence and turned loose to
become a useful citizen.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Buck, Doris Pitkin

Title:       Come where my love lies dreaming

Journal:     _Fantasy and Science Fiction_, Vol. 26, No. 2, 113–126

Publisher:   Mercury Press, New York

Date:        February 1964

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as panaceas

Annotation:  The quickest refuge from the horrors of life in 21st
century Washington, D. C., is the use of _detenser_ pills. The latest
brand is Protoceratops Tabs, which mentally transport the user to the
Mesozoic Era and create the illusion that he or she is a dinosaur.
The story, gently comic in tone, follows the adventures of a woman
who takes the dinosaur trip and comes face-to-face not only with
prehistoric beasts but with her own inner problems.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Purdom, Tom

Title:       Greenplace

Journal:     _Fantasy and Science Fiction_, Vol. 27, No. 5, 5–16

Publisher:   Mercury Press, New York

Date:        November 1964

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as intelligence enhancers

Annotation:  Protagonist is a psychologist doing political
field-testing on behalf of a Congressman running for re-election c.
1980. As he prepares to enter a suburban district controlled by his
candidate’s powerful opponent, he doses himself with _MST_, a newly
invented psychic energizer that “multiplied the powers of observation
and the rate and quality of thought by a factor somewhere between three
and seven.” Under the influence of _MST_ he is able to detect the
frightening psychological techniques by which the suburb is held in
control.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      McCombs, Larry and White, Ted

Title:       The peacock king

Journal:     _Fantasy and Science Fiction_, Vol. 29, No. 5, 23–36

Publisher:   Mercury Press, New York

Date:        November 1965

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  The United States is planning its first expedition
into interstellar space, using a radical space-drive that permits
faster-than-light travel. Preliminary experiments have shown that a
faster-than-light trip will have grave psychological impact on the
crew, and therefore LSD is used as part of the training discipline
for the crew (a man and a woman). Through acid experiences they make
themselves capable of handling the interstellar jump through hyperspace.




                         ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY

                           CONTEMPORARY PERIOD

                             (1965–Present)


Author:      Guin, Wyman

Title:       Beyond bedlam

In:          _Living Way Out_

Publisher:   Avon Books, New York

Pages:       155–208

Date:        1967 (1951 First Issue)

Format:      Short novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as panaceas

Annotation:  During the late 20th century drugs were developed to aid
schizophrenics by permitting their warring inner personalities to
live side by side, controlling the body alternately. By the following
century the element of schizophrenia is recognized in all persons and
it becomes mandatory to use the drugs, giving everyone a prime ego and
an alternate ego, in fact separate persons, who undergo drug-induced
shifts of dominance every five days. The author explores the concept of
ego-shift by following the fortunes of a number of protagonists whose
doubled personalities engage in complex interactions.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Collins, Hunt (Pseud. of Evan Hunter)

Title:       _Tomorrow and Tomorrow_

Publisher:   Pyramid Books, New York

Pages:       190 pp.

Date:        1956

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as reality-testers

Annotation:  The novel, set in a near-future Earth dominated by
advertising and television, describes the conflict between two groups
of differing social philosophies: the Vikes, who advocate vicarious
pleasure and indulge in heroin-like narcotics to escape from reality,
and the Rees, or Realists, an austere Puritan movement hostile to all
mind-altering substances.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Dick, Philip K.

Title:       We can remember it for you wholesale

Journal:     _Fantasy and Science Fiction_, Vol. 30, No. 4, 3–16

Publisher:   Mercury Press, Inc., New York

Date:        April 1966

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-controllers

Annotation:  A technique is developed by which, using a hypnotic drug
called _narkidrine_, false memories can be implanted in a human brain.
The memory-implant technique can be used to provide the vicarious
illusion of pleasurable experience, but also—as the story unfolds—we
see that it can be used for purposes of political intrigue.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Dick, Philip K.

Title:       _The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch_

Publisher:   Doubleday & Company, New York

Pages:       278 pp.

Date:        1965

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  An illegal hallucinogen, _Can-D_, allows Earth
colonists on Mars, Venus, and other nearby worlds to stave off
the crushing boredom of daily life by permitting them to enter
a highly schematicized common fantasy world where they share in
the adventures of two imaginary lovers who are larger-than-life
Hollywood dream-figures. Complications ensue when a competitive
reality-destroying drug, _Chew-Z_, is introduced surreptitiously by
beings from another solar system.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Dick, Philip K.

Title:       _Now Wait for Last Year_

Publisher:   Doubleday & Company, New York

Pages:       214 pp.

Date:        1966

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  In the war-torn world of the 21st century, Americans
escape from the horrors of their time by addictive use of _JJ-180_,
a drug that allows the consciousness to detach from present time
and return to earlier eras, or even to travel forward in time. The
protagonist, initially attempting only to deal with his wife’s
addiction to the time-travel drug, eventually becomes entangled in
global politics and the progress of the interstellar war as he himself,
under the influence of _JJ-180_, oscillates backward and forward in
time.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Harrison, Harry

Title:       _Make Room! Make Room!_

Publisher:   Doubleday & Company, New York

Pages:       213 pp.

Date:        1966

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as euphorics

Annotation:  The year is 1999 and the population of New York City is
35 million. In this hideously overcrowded society marijuana and LSD
are the chief means of escape from stress, and their use is far more
pervasive than it is today. Filmed as _Soylent Green_.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Aldiss, Brian W.

Title:       The night that all time broke loose

In:          _Dangerous Visions_ (Edited by Harlan Ellison)

Publisher:   Doubleday & Company, New York

Pages:       151–160

Date:        1967

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Comic story about _time gas_, piped through mains to
suburban houses the way heating gas is distributed. Using _time gas_,
subscribers can dial themselves back to any period in their lives they
prefer to re-experience. Story concerns a break in the gas main that
floods the region with _time gas_ and touches off a great gusher that
carries mankind back into prehistoric times, with dinosaurs imminent as
the time-effects grow more powerful.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Anderson, Chester

Title:       _The Butterfly Kid_

Publisher:   Pyramid Books, New York

Pages:       190 pp.

Date:        1967

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  In this comic novel, set among the drug-using
counter-culturists of Greenwich Village, trouble starts when _Reality
Pills_ become available—a “projective hallucinogen” that creates
hallucinations visible not only to the user but to those around him.
It develops that _Reality Pills_ have been invented and distributed by
blue lobster-like beings from another planet in order to facilitate
their conquest of Earth—a conquest ultimately thwarted by the
dedication of a fearless band of hippies.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Dick, Philip K. and Nelson, Ray

Title:       _The Ganymede Takeover_

Publisher:   Ace Books, New York

Pages:       157 pp.

Date:        1967

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  In this satiric novel intelligent worm-like beings
from Ganymede, moon of Jupiter, conquer the Earth despite the best
efforts of such individuals as Rudolph Balkani, Chief of the Bureau of
Psychedelic Research, who has been working on a mind-blocking weapon.
The world that Ganymede conquered is in fact devoted on all levels
to the use of psychedelics, and the novel raises questions about the
nature of “reality” as the action unfolds.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Lupoff, Richard A.

Title:       _One Million Centuries_

Publisher:   Lancer Books, New York

Pages:       352 pp.

Date:        1967

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  A man of the twentieth century is thrust forward in time
to the world of the unimaginably distant future. As he explores the
civilization he finds himself among, he learns that the people of the
era habitually chew _samra_, a hallucinogenic drug, and a woman he
meets takes him on a _samra_ trip. It is a soaring visionary experience
in which he perceives the birth and death of the solar system.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Spinrad, Norman

Title:       Carcinoma angels

In:          _Dangerous Visions_ (Edited by Harlan Ellison)

Publisher:   Doubleday & Company, New York

Pages:       489–497

Date:        1967

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Protagonist suffering from terminal cancer seeks remission
of disease. With the aid of massive doses of various hallucinogenic
agents he reaches an ostensible mental state in which he is capable
of entering his own body to do psychic battle with the cancer cells.
In series of metaphorical contests he destroys the invaders, but is
unable to return to real-world consciousness and is remanded to mental
institution, trapped within his own body.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Wilson, Colin

Title:       _The Mind Parasites_

Publisher:   Arkham House, Sauk City, Wisconsin

Pages:       222 pp.

Date:        1967

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  A research project involving heavy doses of mescaline and
LSD leads to perceptions revealing the existence of invisible “mind
parasites,” alien invaders who have long controlled and influenced
human life. With the aid of the drug, experimenters unleash mental
powers with which to combat the invaders.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Disch, Thomas

Title:       _Camp Concentration_

Publisher:   Doubleday & Company, New York

Pages:       184 pp.

Date:        1968

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as intelligence-enhancers

Annotation:  The novel is the journal of a U.S. political prisoner of
the near future who is assigned to observe and record the progress of
an experiment in which volunteer prisoners at a secret internment camp
are treated with _Pallidine_, an intelligence-enhancing drug derived
from the organism that causes syphilis. In the course of nine months
the drug turns the prisoners into supermen of extraordinary mental
capacity while destroying their bodies with disease.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Herbert, Frank

Title:       _The Santaroga Barrier_

Publisher:   Berkley Books, New York

Pages:       255 pp.

Date:        1968

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  An outsider penetrates a remote California valley
inhabited by reclusive farmers who discourage all contact with
strangers. He discovers that they have built a society based on
consumption of _Jaspers_—a psychedelic drug going far beyond acid in
its effects, fostering a sense of community through its ability to
allow takers to perceive the ultimate relationships linking all aspects
of the universe. He is drawn into the valley society and becomes part
of it.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Moorcock, Michael

Title:       _The Final Programme_

Publisher:   Avon Books, New York

Pages:       191 pp.

Date:        1968

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Satiric comic novel of near future, in which
hallucinogenic drugs are used in a variety of ways—as, for example,
_LSD gas_, employed as a protective device and discharged to muddle the
minds of burglars breaking into a mansion. More conventional use of
drugs (i.e., as euphorics and hallucinogens) is common in the book.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Silverberg, Robert

Title:       How it was when the past went away

In:          _Earth’s Other Shadow_ (By Robert Silverberg)

Publisher:   New American Library, New York

Pages:       66–127

Date:        1973 (First Issue 1969)

Format:      Short novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-injurers

Annotation:  One day in 2003 an unknown malcontent dumps an
amnesia-producing drug into the water system of San Francisco. Within
a few hours virtually everyone in the city has lost his memory, and
the effects of the memory drug linger for several days, causing great
complications. Story follows the reactions of several characters to the
varied effects of sudden amnesia. As story ends things are returning
to normal for most people, but one unstable individual has obtained a
supply of the drug and is preaching its use in a new cult of oblivion.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Spinrad, Norman

Title:       _Bug Jack Barron_

Publisher:   Walker Books, New York

Pages:       327 pp.

Date:        1969

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  In the closing years of the 20th century the work of a
foundation for life-extension research becomes the center of fierce
political controversy. The tensions growing out of the search for
immortality are depicted against the background of a near-future world
in which marijuana and the psychedelic drugs are legal and widely
consumed.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Aldiss, Brian W.

Title:       _Barefoot in the Head_

Publisher:   Doubleday & Company, New York

Pages:       281 pp.

Date:        1970

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-injurers

Annotation:  In Europe of the near future, political tensions have led
to the bombing of the entire continent by the Arab state of Kuwait
with psychedelic weapons—odorless, tasteless, and enormously potent.
In the aftermath of the war all of Europe finds itself on a perpetual
LSD trip, since the drug’s aftereffects prove ineradicable. Industrial
society breaks down, reason becomes extinct, and the novel itself
dissolves into a Joycean verbal phantasmagoria as the old society gives
way to one in which insanity is the norm.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Silverberg, Robert

Title:       Sundance

In:          _The Cube Root of Uncertainty_ (By Robert Silverberg)

Publisher:   Collier Books, New York

Pages:       219–239

Date:        1970

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Protagonist is part of a team of Earth men annihilating
a semi-intelligent alien race on an extrasolar world prior to
colonization of the planet. Protagonist is emotionally disturbed—his
American Indian ancestry makes him bitter about the genocide he feels
is taking place—and his sympathies toward the aliens lead him to take
part in their rites and to consume a hallucinogenic plant, used by
them, that induces synesthesia and a sense of racial communion.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Vonnegut, Kurt

Title:       Welcome to the monkey house

In:          _Welcome to the Monkey House_ (By Kurt Vonnegut)

Publisher:   Delacorte Press, New York

Pages:       28–47

Date:        1970

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-controllers

Annotation:  At a time when the world’s population is 17 billion,
compulsory ethical birth control comes into effect. On pain of fine,
everyone must take birth control pills three times a day. The pills do
not interfere with reproduction, but, by making people numb from the
waist down, “take every bit of pleasure out of sex.”


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Benford, James

Title:       Pulse

Journal:     _Fantastic Science Fiction_, Vol. 20, No. 6, 22–25

Publisher:   Ultimate Publishing Company, New York

Date:        August 1971

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Young woman describes her LSD trip to her psychotherapist:
a vision of another world (she thinks it is the moon) marked by
strange geological formations and flora. He listens patiently to her
descriptions of this obviously illusory experience, but she maintains
the drug actually transported her, and as she goes on talking he is
drawn into the illusion and finds himself mysteriously transported
(without the aid of the drug) to the world of her narrative.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Lafferty, R. A.

Title:       Sky

In:          _New Dimensions One_, (Edited by Robert Silverberg)

Publisher:   Doubleday and Co., New York

Pages:       149–161

Date:        1971

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Protagonists in future civilization make use of _Sky_, a
drug derived from an amanita mushroom. Stated powers of this drug are
to provide sensations of mastery and union-with-cosmos, especially
during parachute drops. Protagonists attain successively more ecstatic
states in series of _Sky_-enhanced parachute drops, until, seeking the
perfect high, they deliberately fail to use their parachutes on one
_Sky_ trip and, after a descent marked by moments of stunning ecstasy,
perish as they hit the ground.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Panshin, Alexei

Title:       How can we sink when we can fly?

In:          _Four Futures_, a science-fiction anthology

Publisher:   Hawthorn Books, New York

Pages:       94–130

Date:        1971

Format:      Short novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  At some period in the future a drug called _tempus_ is
developed which enables people to travel backward in time, literally
or perhaps in mind alone. Young people are required to take _tempus_
journeys as part of the educational process. Story takes place in
contemporary United States, c. 1970, and analyzes current problems by
confronting the protagonist with a _tempus_-using visitor from the
future.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Sheckley, Robert

Title:       Down the digestive tract

In:          _Can You Feel Anything When I Do This?_ (By Robert
              Silverberg)

Publisher:   Doubleday and Co., New York

Pages:       145–147

Date:        1971

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as reality-testers

Annotation:  An underground chemist gives a friend a mixture of
hallucinogenic drugs guaranteed to send him into a true trip. Friend
waits impatiently for the hallucinations to hit. Chemist and friend are
actually not human but alien insecto-reptilian creatures, and it turns
out that the hallucination the friend has is that of being a human
being in our contemporary world.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Silverberg, Robert

Title:       _Downward to the Earth_

Publisher:   New American Library, New York

Pages:       176 pp.

Date:        1971

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  The venom of a serpent found on an alien planet that has
been colonized by Earthmen proves to have medicinal value, serving as a
catalyst in limb-regeneration work; but when used in a different dosage
it has psychological effects, evoking in Earthmen the illusion that
they have been transformed into the elephant-like intelligent species
that is the dominant native life-form of the planet. Illicit use of the
drug for this purpose is common among the Earthmen stationed there.
Protagonist, expiating old guilts, goes among the elephant-beings and
eventually is admitted into ecstatic communion with them through use of
the drug.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Silverberg, Robert

Title:       _A Time of Changes_

Publisher:   New American Library, New York

Pages:       220 pp.

Date:        1971

Format:      Novel

Descriptors: Drugs as mind-expanders, drugs as a means of
             communication

Annotation:  Scene is a planet of the future dominated by stern culture
that makes a fetish of privacy and personal reticence. Narrator obtains
from a “primitive” culture on another continent a drug which attacks
the basics of his native culture by making possible direct telepathic
contact between minds. He attempts to found a subculture of love and
openness based on use of the drug, but, although he is a prince of the
realm, he is proscribed and hunted down.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Silverberg, Robert

Title:       _The World Inside_

Publisher:   Doubleday and Co., New York

Pages:       201 pp.

Date:        1971

Format:      Novel

Descriptors: Drugs as mind-expanders, drugs as a means of
             communication

Annotation:  In world of 24th century, most of mankind lives in
thousand-story apartment buildings each of which has a population of
more than 800,000. Chapter three of the novel follows the adventures
of a musician who, after performing at a concert, drugs himself with
a _multiplexer_, a mind-expanding drug that temporarily induces a
telepathic contact simultaneously with all 800,000 residents of his
building, so that he perceives their lives and thoughts in one vast
intricate construct.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Davis, Grania

Title:       My head’s in a different place now

In:          _Universe Two_, (Edited by Terry Carr)

Publisher:   Ace Books, New York

Pages:       151–172

Date:        1972

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Young American married couple, weary of life on welfare
in a large city, travel into Central American jungle in search of a
drug-using primitive tribe of which they have heard. Eventually they
find an Eden-like place where the natives, though dominated by fears
of supernatural beings, seem whole and happy. The Americans discover
hallucinogenic mushrooms near the village, begin using them, and settle
into an amiable life of tripping and telepathic contact with animals,
insects, and plants. As story ends they are planning to turn on the
unsuspecting villagers.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Hollis, H. H.

Title:       Stoned counsel

In:          _Again, Dangerous Visions_, (Edited by Harlan Ellison)

Publisher:   Doubleday and Co., New York

Pages:       270–281

Date:        1972

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  In world of near future hallucinogenic drugs have become
a routine part of the legal process. Lawyers examine evidence that
is fed to them in direct association with LSD and other drugs, and
trials are conducted with prosecutors and defense attorneys both in a
drug-enhanced mental state. Approach of the story is sympathetic and
detached; drug-enhancement is depicted as a new phase, not necessarily
negative in implication, in courtroom procedure.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Jones, Langdon

Title:       The eye of the lens

In:          _The Eye of the Lens_ (By Langdon Jones)

Publisher:   Collier Books, New York

Date:        1972

Pages:       53–90

Format:      Short novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Avant-garde story without summarizable plot: it attempts
to depict various cinematic and psychedelic modes of perception and
includes (p. 84) an explicitly psychedelic scene within a British
cathedral of the near future where hallucinatory religious rituals take
place.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Nelson, Ray

Title:       Time travel for pedestrians

In:          _Again, Dangerous Visions_, (Edited by Harlan Ellison)

Publisher:   Doubleday and Co., New York

Date:        1972

Pages:       140–159

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Protagonist, using crushed “flower seeds” plus
auto-hypnotic techniques, embarks on a trip in which his consciousness
perceives past existences. He travels mentally to medieval northern
Europe, to Egypt shortly after the time of Jesus, to medieval southern
France, and other eras.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Niven, Larry

Title:       The fourth profession

In:          _Best Science Fiction of the Year_, Vol. I, (Edited by
              Terry Carr)

Publisher:   Ballantine Books, New York

Pages:       293–340

Date:        1972

Format:      Short novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Alien beings known as Monks come to Earth and, to serve
purposes of their own, distribute a variety of strange pills. One of
these drugs is an intelligence-enhancer, another is a memory-destroyer,
another induces instantaneous transport from one place to another.
Story explores the effects of these and other alien-given drugs and the
motivations of the aliens who distribute them.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Silverberg, Robert

Title:       _Dying Inside_

Publisher:   Charles Scribner’s and Sons, New York

Pages:       245 pp.

Date:        1972

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as means of communication

Annotation:  Story takes place in 1976. Narrator is middle-aged New
York intellectual who has had the power of telepathy since childhood
and now is losing it. The power has embittered him by rendering him a
freak, and he has taken pains to conceal knowledge of it from others.
He tells how, in 1968, a close love relationship of his was terminated
when he and his woman friend took LSD together; the trip had the
unexpected effect of opening a two-way telepathic channel between them,
so that not only could he read her mind as usual but she briefly had
access to his, giving her a bad trip and causing her to recoil from him.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Spinrad, Norman

Title:       No direction home

In:          _Best Science Fiction of the Year_, Vol. I, (Edited by
              Terry Carr)

Publisher:   Ballantine Books, New York

Pages:       227–244

Date:        1972

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Scene is United States of the near future in which
psychedelic drugs of all kinds, including many not yet known, are legal
and widely used on all levels of society. Story speculates in detail on
the nature of a commercialized legal psychedelics industry and on the
forms future drugs may take.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Bradley, Marion Zimmer

Title:       _Darkover Landfall_

Publisher:   Daw Books, New York

Pages:       160 pp.

Date:        1973

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Story describes the arrival on the extrasolar planet of
Darkover of a shipload of colonists from Earth, and explores the impact
on the Earthmen of the Ghost Wind, a native meteorological phenomenon
that has psychedelic effects, caused by pollen, dust, or virus, which
liberate ESP powers in their minds. The settlers, bombarded by hitherto
unfamiliar sensory data, are plunged into conflict that transforms the
group.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Brunner, John

Title:       _The Stone That Never Came Down_

Publisher:   Doubleday and Co., New York

Pages:       206 pp.

Date:        1973

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Scene is London, 1980’s: a time of chaos with World
War III imminent. Chemists discover drug called _VC_—_viral
coefficient_—which has the property of greatly intensifying sensory
perception and amplifying intelligence and memory. Drug has ability to
multiply in proper environment like living organism. When an unemployed
teacher who has had an experimental dose of _VC_ donates blood to
central bloodbank, he unwittingly spreads _VC_ widely to the world
at large, causing an epidemic of sanity in which world leaders, now
greatly more intelligent, take steps to abolish warfare and establish
an ideally rational society.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Dickson, Gordon R.

Title:       _The R-Master_

Publisher:   Lippincott, Philadelphia

Pages:       216 pp.

Date:        1973

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  In the middle of the 21st century an
intelligence-enhancing drug called _Reninase-47_ has come into wide
use. Though normally it simply stimulates the thought process, _R-47_
occasionally does massive damage to the mind, and in a few cases
creates a supergenius, an _R-master_. Protagonist’s brother takes
_R-47_ and suffers brain damage. In order to help him, protagonist
also takes the drug and unexpectedly emerges from treatment as an
_R-master_, a member of an extraordinary elite group, and from
another _R-master_ he learns of the need for a vast reorganization of
governmental policies. He becomes a revolutionary leader and works
toward a transformation of society.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Free, Colin

Title:       _The Soft Kill_

Publisher:   Berkley Books, New York

Pages:       159 pp.

Date:        1973

Format:      Novel

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-controllers

Annotation:  Protagonist is a scientist stationed aboard an orbiting
research station of the far future. Needing a holiday, he is
transferred to a place called HighTown—an overpopulated city where a
totalitarian government maintains control by dosing the citizens with a
variety of tranquilizing and euphoric drugs. Novel explores the effect
of government-by-chemistry.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Pumilia, Joseph F.

Title:       As dreams are made on

Journal:     _Fantastic Science Fiction_, Vol. 22, No. 3, 18–29

Publisher:   Ultimate Publishing Co., New York

Date:        1973

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  Teenage boy obtains a supply of _metamorphium_, a drug
that induces fantasy-gratification dreams. Not only are his dreams
richly satisfying, but he discovers that his girlfriend, whom he sees
in the dreams, is aware of the visions as if the drug has induced some
telepathic link between them. He has a vision of a time when everyone
is linked through shared _metamorphium_ dreams—“one big dream, one big
mind asleep and dreaming all the time,” even though individual dreamers
will wake from the big dream.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Rotsler, William

Title:       Gods of Zar

Journal:     _Amazing Stories_, Vol. 47, No. 3, 20–40

Publisher:   Ultimate Publishing Co., New York

Date:        1973

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as euphorics

Annotation:  An Earthman stranded on an alien planet becomes god of
the local native race. When his people are attacked by a hostile tribe
he defeats the enemy soldiers by dosing them with _tazeel_, a euphoric
drug of the planet that destroys their discipline and converts them
instantly from Spartan ferocity to self-indulgence.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Scortia, Thomas N.

Title:       The weariest river

In:          _Future City_, (Edited by Roger Elwood)

Publisher:   Trident Press, New York

Pages:       108–148

Date:        1973

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as euphorics

Annotation:  The scene is about 350 years from now. An immortality
treatment has been perfected and the world has become a savagely
overcrowded, polluted urban sprawl in which people live forever. Drugs
are the main refuge from boredom among the immortals. The protagonist
is the inventor of the immortality serum, whose life is spent in an
endless search for illegal drugs to palliate his guilt and spiritual
malaise.


                     ——————————————————————————————

Author:      Spinrad, Norman

Title:       The weed of time

Journal:     _Vertex_, Vol. 1, No. 3

Publisher:   Mankind Publishing Co., Los Angeles

Pages:       58, 92–93

Date:        1973

Format:      Short story

Descriptor:  Drugs as mind-expanders

Annotation:  An exploratory mission to the fifth planet of the star Tau
Ceti in 2048 discovers a plant that is given the name of _Tempis ceti_,
seeds and leaves of which have a psychedelic property: they destroy the
linear perception of time and enable the subject to view all moments
along his lifespan simultaneously. Seeds of the plant prove to be
fertile on Earth and the drug comes into common use. Protagonist is a
time-drug user whose simultaneous perception of his 110-year lifespan
sends him to a mental hospital.




              AUTHOR/TITLE INDEX TO ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY


  _Abyss, The_, 23

  _Addicts, The_, 25

  Aldiss, Brian W., 35, 40

  Anderson, Chester, 35

  _As Dreams Are Made On_, 51


  _Barefoot in the Head_, 40

  Barnes, Arthur K., 18

  Bartel, Philip J., 15

  Benford, James, 42

  _Beyond Bedlam_, 32

  Binder, Eando, 20

  Bradley, Marion Zimmer, 49

  _Brave New World_, 13

  Brunner, John, 49

  Buck, Doris Pitkin, 29

  _Bug Jack Barron_, 40

  Burgess, Anthony, 28

  _Butterfly Kid, The_, 35


  _Camp Concentration_, 38

  _Carcinoma Angels_, 37

  _Clockwork Orange, A_, 28

  Coblentz, Stanton A., 19

  Collins, Hunt, 32

  _Come Where My Love Lies Dreaming_, 29

  _Control Drug, The_, 14


  _Darkover Landfall_, 49

  Davis, Grania, 45

  Devaux, Pierre, 26

  _Diabolical Drug, The_, 12

  Dick, Philip K., 33, 34, 36

  Dickson, Gordon R., 50

  Disch, Thomas, 38

  _Down the Digestive Tract_, 43

  _Downward to the Earth_, 44

  _Dream-dust from Mars_, 20

  _Dying Inside_, 48


  _Elixir of Peace, The_, 24

  _Elixir of Progress, The_, 15

  _Emotion Gas_, 19

  _Emotion Solution_, 18

  _Eye of the Lens, The_, 46


  _Facial Justice_, 27

  Fearn, John Russell, 14

  _Final Programme, The_, 39

  _Fourth Profession, The_, 47

  Free, Colin, 50


  _Ganymede Takeover, The_, 36

  Gatter, George F., 19

  _Glowworm Flower, The_, 19

  _Gods of Zar_, 51

  _Golden Nemesis_, 21

  _Greenplace_, 29

  Guin, Wyman, 32

  Gunn, James, 27


  Hall, Charles F., 21

  Hamilton, Edmond, 15

  Harris, Clare Winger, 12

  Harrison, Harry, 34

  Hartley, L. P., 27

  _He Never Slept_, 14

  Heinlein, Robert A., 24

  _Hellflower_, 25

  Herbert, Benson, 14

  Herbert, Frank, 38

  Hollis, H. H., 46

  _Hormone Menace, The_, 20

  _How Can We Sink When We Can Fly?_, 43

  _How It Was When the Past Went Away_, 39

  Huxley, Aldous, 13, 28


  _I Remember Oblivion_, 22

  _Island_, 28


  Jones, Langdon, 46

  _Joy Makers, The_, 27


  Keller, David H., 13, 23

  Kyle, David A., 21


  Lafferty, R. A., 42

  Lester, Irvin, 12

  _Literary Corkscrew, The_, 13

  Lupoff, Richard A., 36


  McCombs, Larry, 30

  MacDonald, John D., 23

  _Make Room! Make Room!_, 34

  _Mind Parasites, The_, 37

  Moorcock, Michael, 39

  Morrison, William, 25

  _My Head’s In a Different Place Now_, 45


  Nelson, Ray, 36, 47

  _Night That All Time Broke Loose, The_, 35

  Niven, Larry, 47

  _No Direction Home_, 48

  _Now Wait for Last Year_, 34


  _One Million Centuries_, 36


  Panshin, Alexei, 43

  _Peacock King, The_, 30

  Phillips, Rog, 26

  _Plutonian Drug, The_, 18

  Pohl, Frederik, 22

  Pratt, Fletcher, 12

  _Pulse_, 42

  Pumilia, Joseph F., 51

  _Puppet Masters, The_, 24

  Purdom, Tom, 29


  _R-Master, The_, 50

  _Roger Bacon Formula, The_, 12

  Rotsler, William, 51


  _Santaroga Barrier, The_, 38

  Scortia, Thomas N., 52

  Sheckley, Robert, 43

  Silverberg, Robert, 39, 41, 44, 45, 48

  _Sky_, 42

  Slesar, Henry, 22

  Smith, Clark Ashton, 18

  Smith, George O., 25

  _Soft Kill, The_, 50

  Spinrad, Norman, 37, 40, 48, 52

  _Stolen Minute, The_, 26

  _Stone That Never Came Down, The_, 49

  _Stoned Counsel_, 46

  _Sundance_, 41


  _Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch, The_, 33

  _Time Drug, The_, 21

  _Time of Changes, A_, 44

  _Time Travel for Pedestrians_, 47

  _Tomorrow and Tomorrow_, 32

  _Trojan Horse Laugh_, 23

  _Truth Gas, The_ 15


  Viot, H. G., 26

  Vonnegut, Kurt, 41


  _We Can Remember It For You Wholesale_, 33

  _Weariest River, The_, 52

  _Weed of Time, The_, 52

  _Welcome to the Monkey House_, 41

  Wellman, Manly Wade, 20

  _What to Do Until the Analyst Comes_, 22

  White, Ted, 30

  Williams, Robert Moore, 24

  Wilson, Colin, 37

  _World Inside, The_, 45


  _Yellow Pill, The_, 26




DHEW Publication No. (ADM) 75-190
Printed 1975

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE
PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE
ALCOHOL, DRUG ABUSE, AND MENTAL HEALTH ADMINISTRATION

NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE
11400 ROCKVILLE PIKE
ROCKVILLE, MARYLAND 20852


                           —————————————————

                     Transcriber’s Note (continued)

Errors in punctuation and simple typos have been corrected without note.
Archaic or variant spelling, inconsistent hyphenation, etc., has been
left as it appears in the original publication unless as noted in the
following:

  Page iv – “science fiction” changed to “science-fiction”
              (Silverberg is the author of many science-fiction novels)
  Page  3 – “science fictionists” changed to “science-fictionists”
              (for the speculations of science-fictionists)
  Page  4 – “brain-washing” changed to “brainwashing”
              (analogous to brainwashing)
  Page  5 – “science fiction” changed to “science-fiction”
              (Drug-users in science-fiction stories)
  Page  5 – “Science fiction” changed to “Science-fiction”
              (Science-fiction writers tend to be no more radical)
  Page  7 – “The Joymakers” changed to “The Joy Makers”
              (The Joy Makers, published in 1961)
  Page 27 – “The Joymakers” changed to “The Joy Makers”
              (Title: The Joy Makers)
  Page 27 – “noncomformity” changed to “nonconformity”
              (it lowers vitality and reduces nonconformity)
  Page 43 – “science fiction” changed to “science-fiction”
              (In: _Four Futures_, a science-fiction anthology)
  Page 54 – “Joymakers” changed to “Joy Makers”
              (Joy Makers, The)






*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DRUG THEMES IN SCIENCE FICTION ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


